Parent PNG files: ['POPULATIONS\\POPULATION_0027\\INDIVIDUAL_MGHKHYRM\\N_pred_comparison.png', 'POPULATIONS\\POPULATION_0027\\INDIVIDUAL_MGHKHYRM\\P_pred_comparison.png', 'POPULATIONS\\POPULATION_0027\\INDIVIDUAL_MGHKHYRM\\Z_pred_comparison.png']
[?12l[?25hSkipping 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_FG6QFBRX\model.cpp that matches 
gitignore spec.
Skipping 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_FG6QFBRX\parameters.json that 
matches gitignore spec.
Skipping 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_FG6QFBRX\intention.tex that matches
gitignore spec.
Creating empty file 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_FG6QFBRX\intention.tex
Added C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_MGHKHYRM\N_pred_comparison
.png to read-only files.
Added C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_MGHKHYRM\P_pred_comparison
.png to read-only files.
Added C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_MGHKHYRM\Z_pred_comparison
.png to read-only files.
Looking at the comparison plots, I   
notice that the model underestimates 
phytoplankton peaks and has some     
phase misalignment in the nutrient   
cycling. One key ecological mechanism
that could improve this is the       
inclusion of variable nutrient       
storage by phytoplankton - known as  
luxury uptake.                       

This would allow phytoplankton to    
store excess nutrients when available
and continue growing even when       
external nutrients become scarce.    
I'll implement this by:              

 1 Adding internal nutrient quota    
   parameters                        
 2 Modifying uptake and growth       
   equations to depend on quota      
 3 Separating uptake from growth     

Here are the changes:                

POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_FG6QFBRX\model.cpp                 

                                     
 <<<<<<< SEARCH                      
   // Parameters                     
   PARAMETER(r_max);         //      
 Maximum phytoplankton growth rate   
 (day^-1)                            
   PARAMETER(K_N);          //       
 Half-saturation constant for nutrie 
 uptake (g C m^-3)                   
 =======                             
   // Parameters                     
   PARAMETER(r_max);         //      
 Maximum phytoplankton growth rate   
 (day^-1)                            
   PARAMETER(K_N);          //       
 Half-saturation constant for nutrie 
 uptake (g C m^-3)                   
   PARAMETER(Q_min);        // Minim 
 internal nutrient quota (g N/g C)   
   PARAMETER(Q_max);        // Maxim 
 internal nutrient quota (g N/g C)   
   PARAMETER(V_max);        // Maxim 
 nutrient uptake rate (g N/g C/day)  
 >>>>>>> REPLACE                     
                                     

                                     
 <<<<<<< SEARCH                      
   // Vectors to store predictions   
   vector<Type> N_pred(Time.size()); 
   vector<Type> P_pred(Time.size()); 
   vector<Type> Z_pred(Time.size()); 
   vector<Type> D_pred(Time.size()); 
 =======                             
   // Vectors to store predictions   
   vector<Type> N_pred(Time.size()); 
   vector<Type> P_pred(Time.size()); 
   vector<Type> Z_pred(Time.size()); 
   vector<Type> D_pred(Time.size()); 
   vector<Type> Q_pred(Time.size()); 
 // Internal nutrient quota          
 >>>>>>> REPLACE                     
                                     

                                     
 <<<<<<< SEARCH                      
   // Initial conditions (ensure     
 positive)                           
   N_pred(0) = exp(log(N_dat(0) +    
 eps));                              
   D_pred(0) = Type(0.1); // Initial 
 detritus concentration              
   P_pred(0) = exp(log(P_dat(0) +    
 eps));                              
   Z_pred(0) = exp(log(Z_dat(0) +    
 eps));                              
 =======                             
   // Initial conditions (ensure     
 positive)                           
   N_pred(0) = exp(log(N_dat(0) +    
 eps));                              
   D_pred(0) = Type(0.1); // Initial 
 detritus concentration              
   P_pred(0) = exp(log(P_dat(0) +    
 eps));                              
   Z_pred(0) = exp(log(Z_dat(0) +    
 eps));                              
   Q_pred(0) = (Q_min + Q_max) /     
 Type(2.0); // Start at middle of    
 quota range                         
 >>>>>>> REPLACE                     
                                     

                                     
 <<<<<<< SEARCH                      
       // Calculate nutrient-depende 
 uptake efficiency with baseline     
       Type eta_N = eta_base +       
 (eta_max - eta_base) / (Type(1.0) + 
 exp(-k_eta * (N - N_crit)));        
                                     
       // Calculate temperature and  
 light dependent rates with enhanced 
 adaptive efficiency                 
       Type uptake = r_max *         
 temp_scale * photo_eff *            
 light_limitation * eta_N * N * P /  
 (K_N + N + eps);                    
 =======                             
       // Nutrient uptake depends on 
 external concentration and current  
 quota                               
       Type uptake_regulation = (Q_m 
 - Q) / (Q_max - Q_min);             
       Type uptake = V_max *         
 temp_scale * uptake_regulation * N  
 P / (K_N + N + eps);                
                                     
       // Growth depends on internal 
 quota                               
       Type quota_limitation = (Q -  
 Q_min) / (Q + eps);                 
       Type growth = r_max *         
 temp_scale * photo_eff *            
 light_limitation * quota_limitation 
 P;                                  
 >>>>>>> REPLACE                     
                                     

                                     
 <<<<<<< SEARCH                      
       // System of differential     
 equations                           
       Type dN = -uptake + remin;    
                                     
       // Enhanced mortality and     
 sinking under nutrient stress       
       Type nutrient_stress = m_P_N  
 K_N / (N + K_N + eps);              
       Type sinking = (s_P + s_P_max 
 K_N / (N + K_N + eps)) * P;         
       Type dP = uptake - grazing -  
 (m_P + nutrient_stress) * P -       
 sinking;                            
 =======                             
       // System of differential     
 equations                           
       Type dN = -uptake + remin;    
       Type dQ = uptake/P -          
 Q*growth/P;  // Quota changes with  
 uptake and dilution by growth       
                                     
       // Nutrient stress now depend 
 on internal quota                   
       Type nutrient_stress = m_P_N  
 (Q_max - Q) / (Q_max - Q_min + eps) 
       Type sinking = (s_P + s_P_max 
 (Q_max - Q) / (Q_max - Q_min + eps) 
 * P;                                
       Type dP = growth - grazing -  
 (m_P + nutrient_stress) * P -       
 sinking;                            
 >>>>>>> REPLACE                     
                                     

                                     
 <<<<<<< SEARCH                      
       // Store final values         
       N_pred(t) = N;                
       P_pred(t) = P;                
       Z_pred(t) = Z;                
       D_pred(t) = D;                
 =======                             
       // Store final values         
       N_pred(t) = N;                
       P_pred(t) = P;                
       Z_pred(t) = Z;                
       D_pred(t) = D;                
       Q_pred(t) = Q;                
 >>>>>>> REPLACE                     
                                     

POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_FG6QFBRX\parameters.json           

                                     
 <<<<<<< SEARCH                      
     ]                               
 =======                             
     ],                              
     {                               
         "parameter": "Q_min",       
         "value": 0.05,              
         "description": "Minimum     
 internal nutrient quota (g N/g C)", 
         "source": "literature",     
         "import_type": "PARAMETER", 
         "priority": 1,              
         "enhanced_semantic_descript 
 n": "Minimum internal nutrient      
 concentration required for          
 phytoplankton survival, representin 
 cellular structural components",    
         "citations": [              
             "https://doi.org/10.431 
 lo.1968.13.1.0156",                 
             "https://doi.org/10.101 
 0022-0981(71)90054-0"               
         ],                          
         "processed": true           
     },                              
     {                               
         "parameter": "Q_max",       
         "value": 0.3,               
         "description": "Maximum     
 internal nutrient quota (g N/g C)", 
         "source": "literature",     
         "import_type": "PARAMETER", 
         "priority": 1,              
         "enhanced_semantic_descript 
 n": "Maximum internal nutrient      
 storage capacity of phytoplankton   
 cells under luxury uptake           
 conditions",                        
         "citations": [              
             "https://doi.org/10.431 
 lo.1968.13.1.0156"                  
         ],                          
         "processed": true           
     },                              
     {                               
         "parameter": "V_max",       
         "value": 0.5,               
         "description": "Maximum     
 nutrient uptake rate (g N/g C/day)" 
         "source": "literature",     
         "import_type": "PARAMETER", 
         "priority": 1,              
         "enhanced_semantic_descript 
 n": "Maximum rate at which          
 phytoplankton can acquire external  
 nutrients, regulated by transporter 
 and cell surface area",             
         "citations": [              
             "https://doi.org/10.101 
 0022-0981(71)90054-0",              
             "https://doi.org/10.431 
 lo.1968.13.1.0156"                  
         ],                          
         "processed": true           
     }                               
     ]                               
 >>>>>>> REPLACE                     
                                     

POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_FG6QFBRX\intention.tex             

                                     
 <<<<<<< SEARCH                      
 =======                             
 This model enhancement implements   
 variable internal nutrient storage  
 (luxury uptake) in phytoplankton, a 
 well-documented physiological       
 mechanism that allows cells to      
 decouple nutrient uptake from growt 
 The key ecological implications are 
                                     
 1. Nutrient Storage Buffer:         
 Phytoplankton can store excess      
 nutrients when available, continuin 
 growth even when external nutrients 
 become scarce. This better represen 
 the observed phase relationships    
 between nutrients and biomass.      
                                     
 2. Uptake-Growth Decoupling:        
 Separating nutrient uptake from     
 growth reflects real physiological  
 constraints. Uptake depends on      
 external nutrients and is           
 downregulated as internal stores fi 
 up. Growth depends on internal quot 
 allowing for continued production   
 even when external nutrients are    
 depleted.                           
                                     
 3. Realistic Stress Response:       
 Nutrient stress is now based on     
 internal quota rather than external 
 concentration, better representing  
 cellular physiology. This affects   
 both mortality and sinking rates, a 
 nutrient-starved cells are more     
 likely to die or sink out of the    
 surface layer.                      
                                     
 The implementation uses the Droop   
 quota model framework, with:        
 - Uptake rate = V_max * (Q_max -    
 Q)/(Q_max - Q_min) * N/(K_N + N)    
 - Growth rate = r_max * (Q - Q_min) 
 * f(light,temp)                     
                                     
 This mechanistic representation     
 should improve the model's ability  
 capture:                            
 - Bloom timing and magnitude        
 - Nutrient drawdown patterns        
 - Population resilience to nutrient 
 fluctuations                        
 >>>>>>> REPLACE                     
                                     

These changes implement a more       
mechanistically realistic            
representation of phytoplankton      
nutrient dynamics, which should help 
better capture the observed patterns 
in the comparison plots.             

Tokens: 12k sent, 2.0k received. 
Cost: $0.07 message, $0.07 session.
Committing 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_FG6QFBRX\model.cpp before applying 
edits.
Committing 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_FG6QFBRX\parameters.json before 
applying edits.
Committing 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_FG6QFBRX\intention.tex before 
applying edits.
Unable to add 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX\intention.tex: 
Cmd('git') failed due to: exit 
code(1)
  cmdline: git add 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX\intention.tex
  stderr: 'The following paths are 
ignored by one of your .gitignore 
files:
POPULATIONS
hint: Use -f if you really want to 
add them.
hint: Turn this message off by 
running
hint: "git config 
advice.addIgnoredFile false"'
Unable to add 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX\parameters.json: 
Cmd('git') failed due to: exit 
code(1)
  cmdline: git add 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX\parameters.json
  stderr: 'The following paths are 
ignored by one of your .gitignore 
files:
POPULATIONS
hint: Use -f if you really want to 
add them.
hint: Turn this message off by 
running
hint: "git config 
advice.addIgnoredFile false"'
Unable to add 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX\model.cpp: 
Cmd('git') failed due to: exit 
code(1)
  cmdline: git add 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX\model.cpp
  stderr: 'The following paths are 
ignored by one of your .gitignore 
files:
POPULATIONS
hint: Use -f if you really want to 
add them.
hint: Turn this message off by 
running
hint: "git config 
advice.addIgnoredFile false"'
Unable to commit: Cmd('git') failed 
due to: exit code(1)
  cmdline: git commit -m feat: Add 
new individual files for population 
0027 --no-verify -- 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX\intention.tex 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX\parameters.json 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX\model.cpp
  stderr: 'error: pathspec 
'C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX\intention.tex' 
did not match any file(s) known to 
git
error: pathspec 
'C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX\parameters.json' 
did not match any file(s) known to 
git
error: pathspec 
'C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX\model.cpp' did 
not match any file(s) known to git'
Applied edit to 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_FG6QFBRX\intention.tex
Applied edit to 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_FG6QFBRX\parameters.json
Applied edit to 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_FG6QFBRX\model.cpp

# Fix any errors below, if possible.


## See relevant lines below marked 
with █.

POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_FG6QFBRX\parameters.json:
...⋮...
 370│            "processed": true
 371│        }
 372│    ],
 373█    {
 374│        "parameter": "Q_min",
 375│        "value": 0.05,
 376│        "description": "Minimum 
internal nutrient quota (g N/g C)",
...⋮...
 383│            
"https://doi.org/10.1016/0022-0981(71
)90054-0"
 384│        ],
 385│        "processed": true
 386█    },
 387│    {
 388│        "parameter": "Q_max",
 389│        "value": 0.3,
...⋮...
 396│            
"https://doi.org/10.4319/lo.1968.13.1
.0156"
 397│        ],
 398│        "processed": true
 399█    },
 400│    {
 401│        "parameter": "V_max",
 402│        "value": 0.5,
...⋮...
 411│        ],
 412│        "processed": true
 413│    }
 414█    ]
 415│}


There's a JSON syntax error in the   
parameters.json file - there's an    
extra comma after the parameters     
array and the new parameters are     
incorrectly placed outside the main  
array. Let me fix that:              

POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_FG6QFBRX\parameters.json           

                                     
 <<<<<<< SEARCH                      
     ],                              
     {                               
         "parameter": "Q_min",       
 =======                             
         {                           
             "parameter": "Q_min",   
 >>>>>>> REPLACE                     
                                     

POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_FG6QFBRX\parameters.json           

                                     
 <<<<<<< SEARCH                      
     }                               
     ]                               
 =======                             
     }                               
 ]                                   
 >>>>>>> REPLACE                     
                                     

This fix:                            

 1 Removes the extra comma after the 
   parameters array                  
 2 Properly indents the Q_min, Q_max,
   and V_max parameter objects       
 3 Fixes the closing brackets        

The parameters will now be properly  
included in the main parameters      
array.                               

Tokens: 15k sent, 194 received. Cost:
$0.05 message, $0.12 session.
Committing 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_FG6QFBRX\parameters.json before 
applying edits.
Unable to add 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX\parameters.json: 
Cmd('git') failed due to: exit 
code(1)
  cmdline: git add 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX\parameters.json
  stderr: 'The following paths are 
ignored by one of your .gitignore 
files:
POPULATIONS
hint: Use -f if you really want to 
add them.
hint: Turn this message off by 
running
hint: "git config 
advice.addIgnoredFile false"'
Unable to commit: Cmd('git') failed 
due to: exit code(1)
  cmdline: git commit -m feat: Add 
parameters file for population 
INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX --no-verify -- 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX\parameters.json
  stderr: 'error: pathspec 
'C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX\parameters.json' 
did not match any file(s) known to 
git'
Applied edit to 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_FG6QFBRX\parameters.json

# Fix any errors below, if possible.


## See relevant lines below marked 
with █.

POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_FG6QFBRX\parameters.json:
...⋮...
  2│    "parameters": [
  3│        {
  4│            "parameter": "r_max",
  5│            "value": 1.0,
  6│            "description": 
"Maximum phytoplankton growth rate 
(day^-1)",
  7│            "source": 
"literature",
  8│            "import_type": 
"PARAMETER",
  9│            "priority": 1,
 10│            
"enhanced_semantic_description": 
"Maximum photosynthetic carbon 
fixation rate in marine ecosystems",
 11│            "citations": [
...⋮...
 369│            ],
 370│            "processed": true
 371│        }
 372█        {
 373█            "parameter": 
"Q_min",
 374█        "value": 0.05,
 375█        "description": "Minimum 
internal nutrient quota (g N/g C)",
 376█        "source": "literature",
 377█        "import_type": 
"PARAMETER",
 378█        "priority": 1,
 379█        
"enhanced_semantic_description": 
"Minimum internal nutrient 
concentration required for 
phytoplankton survival, representing 
cellular structural components",
 380█        "citations": [
 381█            
"https://doi.org/10.4319/lo.1968.13.1
.0156",
 382█            
"https://doi.org/10.1016/0022-0981(71
)90054-0"
 383│        ],
 384│        "processed": true
 385█    },
 386│    {
 387│        "parameter": "Q_max",
 388│        "value": 0.3,
...⋮...
 395│            
"https://doi.org/10.4319/lo.1968.13.1
.0156"
 396│        ],
 397│        "processed": true
 398█    },
 399│    {
 400│        "parameter": "V_max",
 401│        "value": 0.5,
...⋮...
 410│        ],
 411│        "processed": true
 412│    }
 413█]
 414│}


There are JSON syntax errors in the  
parameters.json file. I'll fix the   
missing commas and indentation:      

POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_FG6QFBRX\parameters.json           

                                     
 <<<<<<< SEARCH                      
         }                           
         {                           
             "parameter": "Q_min",   
         "value": 0.05,              
         "description": "Minimum     
 internal nutrient quota (g N/g C)", 
         "source": "literature",     
         "import_type": "PARAMETER", 
         "priority": 1,              
         "enhanced_semantic_descript 
 n": "Minimum internal nutrient      
 concentration required for          
 phytoplankton survival, representin 
 cellular structural components",    
         "citations": [              
 =======                             
         },                          
         {                           
             "parameter": "Q_min",   
             "value": 0.05,          
             "description": "Minimum 
 internal nutrient quota (g N/g C)", 
             "source": "literature", 
             "import_type":          
 "PARAMETER",                        
             "priority": 1,          
             "enhanced_semantic_desc 
 ption": "Minimum internal nutrient  
 concentration required for          
 phytoplankton survival, representin 
 cellular structural components",    
             "citations": [          
 >>>>>>> REPLACE                     
                                     

The changes:                         

 1 Added missing comma after the     
   closing brace of the previous     
   parameter                         
 2 Fixed indentation of the Q_min    
   parameter object properties to    
   match the style of other          
   parameters                        

This should resolve the JSON syntax  
errors and maintain consistent       
formatting throughout the file.      

Tokens: 16k sent, 292 received. Cost:
$0.05 message, $0.17 session.
Committing 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_FG6QFBRX\parameters.json before 
applying edits.
Unable to add 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX\parameters.json: 
Cmd('git') failed due to: exit 
code(1)
  cmdline: git add 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX\parameters.json
  stderr: 'The following paths are 
ignored by one of your .gitignore 
files:
POPULATIONS
hint: Use -f if you really want to 
add them.
hint: Turn this message off by 
running
hint: "git config 
advice.addIgnoredFile false"'
Unable to commit: Cmd('git') failed 
due to: exit code(1)
  cmdline: git commit -m feat: Add 
parameters file for population 
INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX --no-verify -- 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX\parameters.json
  stderr: 'error: pathspec 
'C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX\parameters.json' 
did not match any file(s) known to 
git'
Applied edit to 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_FG6QFBRX\parameters.json
Improved existing model in individual: POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX
Validating model for data leakage...
Opening file: POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX\model.cpp
File read successfully
Extracting vectors...
Found data vectors: {'Z_dat', 'Time', 'N_dat', 'P_dat'}
Found prediction vectors: {'Z_pred', 'Q_pred', 'N_pred', 'Temp', 'P_pred', 'D_pred'}
Found reported vectors: {'Z_pred', 'P_pred', 'N_pred', 'D_pred'}
Finding initial conditions...
Found 5 initial conditions
Finding time-stepping loop...
Found loop from line 81 to 166
Found response variables: {'Z_dat', 'N_dat', 'P_dat'}

Warnings found in model:
  Line 0: Missing REPORT statement: Q_pred is not reported.
    Add 'REPORT(Q_pred);' before the return statement.

Model contains data leakage issues - marking as broken
Fixing broken model iteration: 0
pre-error maybe
Issue with model set-up:Data leakage detected in model equations:
  Line 0: Missing REPORT statement: Q_pred is not reported.
    Add 'REPORT(Q_pred);' before the return statement.
I'll add the missing REPORT statement
for Q_pred in the model.cpp file:    

POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_FG6QFBRX\model.cpp                 

                                     
 <<<<<<< SEARCH                      
   REPORT(N_pred);                   
   REPORT(P_pred);                   
   REPORT(Z_pred);                   
   REPORT(D_pred);                   
                                     
                                     
   return nll;                       
 =======                             
   REPORT(N_pred);                   
   REPORT(P_pred);                   
   REPORT(Z_pred);                   
   REPORT(D_pred);                   
   REPORT(Q_pred);                   
                                     
   return nll;                       
 >>>>>>> REPLACE                     
                                     

This change adds Q_pred to the       
reported variables, which will make  
the internal nutrient quota          
predictions available for analysis   
and plotting.                        

Tokens: 17k sent, 132 received. Cost:
$0.05 message, $0.22 session.
Committing 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_FG6QFBRX\model.cpp before applying 
edits.
Unable to add 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX\model.cpp: 
Cmd('git') failed due to: exit 
code(1)
  cmdline: git add 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX\model.cpp
  stderr: 'The following paths are 
ignored by one of your .gitignore 
files:
POPULATIONS
hint: Use -f if you really want to 
add them.
hint: Turn this message off by 
running
hint: "git config 
advice.addIgnoredFile false"'
Unable to commit: Cmd('git') failed 
due to: exit code(1)
  cmdline: git commit -m feat: Add 
model.cpp for POPULATION_0027 
individual FG6QFBRX --no-verify -- 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX\model.cpp
  stderr: 'error: pathspec 
'C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX\model.cpp' did 
not match any file(s) known to git'
Applied edit to 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_FG6QFBRX\model.cpp
Validating fixed model for data leakage...
Opening file: POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX\model.cpp
File read successfully
Extracting vectors...
Found data vectors: {'Z_dat', 'Time', 'N_dat', 'P_dat'}
Found prediction vectors: {'Z_pred', 'Q_pred', 'N_pred', 'Temp', 'P_pred', 'D_pred'}
Found reported vectors: {'Z_pred', 'Q_pred', 'N_pred', 'P_pred', 'D_pred'}
Finding initial conditions...
Found 5 initial conditions
Finding time-stepping loop...
Found loop from line 81 to 166
Found response variables: {'Z_dat', 'N_dat', 'P_dat'}
[93mRunning model for individual...[0m
[0mIndividual directory: POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX[0m
[93mR script stdout:[0m
[0mg++ -std=gnu++17  -I"C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/include" -DNDEBUG -I"C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-44~1.1/library/TMB/include" -I"C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-44~1.1/library/RCPPEI~1/include"   -DTMB_EIGEN_DISABLE_WARNINGS   -DTMB_LIB_INIT=R_init_model  -DCPPAD_FRAMEWORK    -I"C:/rtools44/x86_64-w64-mingw32.static.posix/include"     -O2 -Wa,-mbig-obj -c POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX/model.cpp -o POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX/model.o[0m
[93mR script stderr:[0m
[0mLoading required package: TMB
Loading required package: jsonlite
here() starts at C:/Users/spi085/OneDrive - CSIRO/Documents/_Projects/SCCP-QuantModelling
using C++ compiler: 'G__~1.EXE (GCC) 13.2.0'
POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX/model.cpp: In member function 'Type objective_function<Type>::operator()()':
POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX/model.cpp:121:41: error: 'Q' was not declared in this scope
  121 |       Type uptake_regulation = (Q_max - Q) / (Q_max - Q_min);
      |                                         ^
POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX/model.cpp:165:17: error: 'Q' was not declared in this scope
  165 |     Q_pred(t) = Q;
      |                 ^
make: *** [C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/etc/x64/Makeconf:296: POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX/model.o] Error 1
Error in TMB::compile(file.path(individual_dir, model_file), flags = flags,  : 
  Compilation failed
Error: Compilation failed
Execution halted[0m
[91mModel failed to compile.[0m
Fixing broken model iteration: 1
The error occurs because we need to  
initialize and update the Q (quota)  
variable in the integration loop.    
Here are the fixes:                  

POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_FG6QFBRX\model.cpp                 

                                     
 <<<<<<< SEARCH                      
     Type N = N_pred(t-1);           
     Type P = P_pred(t-1);           
     Type Z = Z_pred(t-1);           
     Type D = D_pred(t-1);           
 =======                             
     Type N = N_pred(t-1);           
     Type P = P_pred(t-1);           
     Type Z = Z_pred(t-1);           
     Type D = D_pred(t-1);           
     Type Q = Q_pred(t-1);           
 >>>>>>> REPLACE                     
                                     

POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_FG6QFBRX\model.cpp                 

                                     
 <<<<<<< SEARCH                      
       N += h * dN;                  
       P += h * dP;                  
       Z += h * dZ;                  
 =======                             
       N += h * dN;                  
       P += h * dP;                  
       Z += h * dZ;                  
       Q += h * dQ;                  
 >>>>>>> REPLACE                     
                                     

These changes:                       

 1 Initialize Q from the previous    
   timestep's value                  
 2 Update Q using the Euler          
   integration step along with the   
   other state variables             

This should resolve the compilation  
errors about Q being undefined.      

Tokens: 17k sent, 285 received. Cost:
$0.06 message, $0.28 session.
Committing 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_FG6QFBRX\model.cpp before applying 
edits.
Unable to add 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX\model.cpp: 
Cmd('git') failed due to: exit 
code(1)
  cmdline: git add 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX\model.cpp
  stderr: 'The following paths are 
ignored by one of your .gitignore 
files:
POPULATIONS
hint: Use -f if you really want to 
add them.
hint: Turn this message off by 
running
hint: "git config 
advice.addIgnoredFile false"'
Unable to commit: Cmd('git') failed 
due to: exit code(1)
  cmdline: git commit -m feat: Add 
model.cpp for POPULATION_0027 
individual FG6QFBRX --no-verify -- 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX\model.cpp
  stderr: 'error: pathspec 
'C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX\model.cpp' did 
not match any file(s) known to git'
Applied edit to 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_FG6QFBRX\model.cpp
Validating fixed model for data leakage...
Opening file: POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX\model.cpp
File read successfully
Extracting vectors...
Found data vectors: {'Z_dat', 'Time', 'N_dat', 'P_dat'}
Found prediction vectors: {'Z_pred', 'Q_pred', 'N_pred', 'Temp', 'P_pred', 'D_pred'}
Found reported vectors: {'Z_pred', 'Q_pred', 'N_pred', 'P_pred', 'D_pred'}
Finding initial conditions...
Found 5 initial conditions
Finding time-stepping loop...
Found loop from line 81 to 168
Found response variables: {'Z_dat', 'N_dat', 'P_dat'}
[93mRunning model for individual...[0m
[0mIndividual directory: POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX[0m
[93mR script stdout:[0m
[0mg++ -std=gnu++17  -I"C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/include" -DNDEBUG -I"C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-44~1.1/library/TMB/include" -I"C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-44~1.1/library/RCPPEI~1/include"   -DTMB_EIGEN_DISABLE_WARNINGS   -DTMB_LIB_INIT=R_init_model  -DCPPAD_FRAMEWORK    -I"C:/rtools44/x86_64-w64-mingw32.static.posix/include"     -O2 -Wa,-mbig-obj -c POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX/model.cpp -o POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX/model.o
g++ -std=gnu++17 -shared -s -static-libgcc -o POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX/model.dll tmp.def POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_FG6QFBRX/model.o -LC:/rtools44/x86_64-w64-mingw32.static.posix/lib/x64 -LC:/rtools44/x86_64-w64-mingw32.static.posix/lib -LC:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/bin/x64 -lR
Starting model phases
Number of phases: 4 
Phase 1 
Initial parameter values for phase 1 :
r_max Q_min Q_max V_max g_max 
 1.00  0.05  0.30  0.50  0.40 
Final parameter values for phase 1 :
    r_max     Q_min     Q_max     V_max     g_max 
3.9930085 0.3395306 0.4226117 0.9644442 0.4719690 
Convergence message: function evaluation limit reached without convergence (9) 
Number of iterations: 129 
Objective function value: 465.8954 
Gradient at solution for phase 1 :
          [,1]     [,2]     [,3]      [,4]     [,5]
[1,] -80.08139 3871.141 -3305.69 -194.0075 611.3055
Phase 2 
Initial parameter values for phase 2 :
       K_N        K_P alpha_base  alpha_max    K_alpha      m_P_N        s_P 
      0.10       0.20       0.20       0.30       0.10       0.15       0.15 
   s_P_max      m_Z_N        r_D      I_opt       beta        k_w        E_p 
      0.30       0.10       0.10     150.00       0.10       0.20       0.45 
   theta_P    eta_max      k_eta     N_crit   eta_base 
      0.50       1.50       5.00       0.15       0.50 
Final parameter values for phase 2 :
          K_N           K_P    alpha_base     alpha_max       K_alpha 
  0.197196967   0.289703886   0.578659166   0.007992313   0.033397796 
        m_P_N           s_P       s_P_max         m_Z_N           r_D 
 -0.340041479   0.452483196  -0.190041479   0.068585867   0.028009584 
        I_opt          beta           k_w           E_p       theta_P 
150.000000000   0.100000000  -1.360328938   0.450000000   0.500000000 
      eta_max         k_eta        N_crit      eta_base 
  1.500000000   5.000000000   0.150000000   0.500000000 
Convergence message: X-convergence (3) 
Number of iterations: 114 
Objective function value: 6.491287 
Gradient at solution for phase 2 :
            [,1]         [,2]        [,3]        [,4]         [,5]        [,6]
[1,] 0.001140694 -0.003136783 0.001225537 0.001729795 0.0001443458 0.001984633
            [,7]        [,8]        [,9]       [,10]         [,11] [,12]
[1,] 0.004780182 0.001984633 -0.00319753 0.003336117 -4.440892e-16     0
             [,13] [,14] [,15] [,16] [,17] [,18] [,19]
[1,] -2.408795e-05     0     0     0     0     0     0
Phase 3 
Initial parameter values for phase 3 :
 m_P  m_Z 
0.10 0.05 
Final parameter values for phase 3 :
       m_P        m_Z 
0.09819675 0.04805370 
Convergence message: relative convergence (4) 
Number of iterations: 14 
Objective function value: 5.084271 
Gradient at solution for phase 3 :
             [,1]          [,2]
[1,] -0.006115426 -0.0005281701
Phase 4 
Initial parameter values for phase 4 :
sigma_N sigma_P sigma_Z 
    0.2     0.2     0.2 
Final parameter values for phase 4 :
  sigma_N   sigma_P   sigma_Z 
0.1571735 0.2997416 0.1911290 
Convergence message: relative convergence (4) 
Number of iterations: 15 
Objective function value: -44.08905 
Gradient at solution for phase 4 :
             [,1]        [,2]          [,3]
[1,] 0.0003656532 0.001227458 -2.389178e-05
Final Phase
Initial parameter values for final phase:
        r_max           K_N         Q_min         Q_max         V_max 
  3.993008454   0.197196967   0.339530615   0.422611692   0.964444247 
        g_max           K_P    alpha_base     alpha_max       K_alpha 
  0.471968965   0.289703886   0.578659166   0.007992313   0.033397796 
          m_P         m_P_N           s_P       s_P_max           m_Z 
  0.098196747  -0.340041479   0.452483196  -0.190041479   0.048053695 
        m_Z_N           r_D       sigma_N       sigma_P       sigma_Z 
  0.068585867   0.028009584   0.157173473   0.299741615   0.191128995 
        I_opt          beta           k_w           E_p       theta_P 
150.000000000   0.100000000  -1.360328938   0.450000000   0.500000000 
      eta_max         k_eta        N_crit      eta_base 
  1.500000000   5.000000000   0.150000000   0.500000000 
Final parameter values for final phase:
       r_max          K_N        Q_min        Q_max        V_max        g_max 
  4.14916803   0.29681686   0.64299559   0.83956427   1.09166497   0.69751170 
         K_P   alpha_base    alpha_max      K_alpha          m_P        m_P_N 
  0.23317762   0.29775625   0.04914480   0.36922332   0.09820954  -0.46800509 
         s_P      s_P_max          m_Z        m_Z_N          r_D      sigma_N 
  0.55225210  -0.31800509   0.18945779   0.03546234   0.02055419   0.07274254 
     sigma_P      sigma_Z        I_opt         beta          k_w          E_p 
  0.27048018   0.09096379 150.00000000   0.10000000  -3.61632338   0.45000000 
     theta_P      eta_max        k_eta       N_crit     eta_base 
  0.50000000   1.50000000   5.00000000   0.15000000   0.50000000 
Convergence message: function evaluation limit reached without convergence (9) 
Number of iterations: 118 
Objective function value: -324.0914 
Gradient at solution for final phase:
         [,1]     [,2]     [,3]      [,4]      [,5]     [,6]     [,7]    [,8]
[1,] -9.16159 686.6404 104.3208 -347.2178 -282.3688 722.5422 -1332.35 687.659
         [,9]     [,10]    [,11]   [,12]    [,13]   [,14]    [,15]     [,16]
[1,] -17.2473 -3.389358 1952.266 1026.26 854.0393 1026.26 276.9565 -317.2768
         [,17]     [,18]     [,19]    [,20]         [,21] [,22]     [,23] [,24]
[1,] -3437.644 -418.2926 -44.79665 140.2221 -1.304512e-15     0 -11.09133     0
     [,25] [,26] [,27] [,28] [,29]
[1,]     0     0     0     0     0
All phases completed

Running model validation...
No test data available (train_test_split >= 1.0)
NULL

DEBUG: Report contents:
List of 5
 $ N_pred: num [1:200] 0.4 0.367 0.329 0.29 0.249 ...
 $ D_pred: num [1:200] 0.1 0.116 0.135 0.156 0.179 ...
 $ Q_pred: num [1:200] 0.741 0.732 0.731 0.73 0.728 ...
 $ Z_pred: num [1:200] 0.05 0.0523 0.055 0.0581 0.0615 ...
 $ P_pred: num [1:200] 0.1 0.115 0.13 0.144 0.157 ...
NULL

DEBUG: Available variables in report:
[1] "N_pred" "D_pred" "Q_pred" "Z_pred" "P_pred"

Checking predictions and calculating objective function...

DEBUG: Processing N_pred 
DEBUG: First few predictions: 0.4 0.3665043 0.3294592 0.2900554 0.249387 0.2087817 
DEBUG: Summary statistics:
   Min. 1st Qu.  Median    Mean 3rd Qu.    Max. 
0.01933 0.23550 0.27634 0.24618 0.30756 0.40000 
DEBUG: All zeros? FALSE 
DEBUG: Any infinities? FALSE 

DEBUG: Processing P_pred 
DEBUG: First few predictions: 0.1 0.1146776 0.1295216 0.1438377 0.1568456 0.1679317 
DEBUG: Summary statistics:
   Min. 1st Qu.  Median    Mean 3rd Qu.    Max. 
0.02146 0.03237 0.03816 0.05279 0.05068 0.19211 
DEBUG: All zeros? FALSE 
DEBUG: Any infinities? FALSE 

DEBUG: Processing Z_pred 
DEBUG: First few predictions: 0.05000001 0.05232319 0.05501906 0.05808097 0.06148408 0.06518522 
DEBUG: Summary statistics:
   Min. 1st Qu.  Median    Mean 3rd Qu.    Max. 
0.05000 0.07033 0.07748 0.08301 0.08874 0.13084 
DEBUG: All zeros? FALSE 
DEBUG: Any infinities? FALSE 

DEBUG: Using the following variables for objective function:
N_dat -> N_pred
P_dat -> P_pred
Z_dat -> Z_pred

DEBUG: Calculating MSE for prediction variables only:

DEBUG: N_pred 
Observed: 0.4 0.375 0.346 0.314 0.278 0.239 ...
Predicted: 0.4 0.3665043 0.3294592 0.2900554 0.249387 0.2087817 ...
MSE (normalized): 0.06447121 

DEBUG: P_pred 
Observed: 0.1 0.117 0.138 0.161 0.187 0.215 ...
Predicted: 0.1 0.1146776 0.1295216 0.1438377 0.1568456 0.1679317 ...
MSE (normalized): 0.2270076 

DEBUG: Z_pred 
Observed: 0.05 0.052 0.053 0.055 0.057 0.059 ...
Predicted: 0.05000001 0.05232319 0.05501906 0.05808097 0.06148408 0.06518522 ...
MSE (normalized): 0.2602866 

DEBUG: MSE values:
     N_dat      P_dat      Z_dat 
0.06447121 0.22700760 0.26028656 

DEBUG: Final objective value (mean of MSEs): 0.1839218 

Final objective function value: 0.1839218 

JSON_REPORT_START
{
  "status": "SUCCESS",
  "objective_value": 0.1839,
  "model_summary": ["            Length Class  Mode     ", "par         29     -none- numeric  ", "objective    1     -none- numeric  ", "convergence  1     -none- numeric  ", "iterations   1     -none- numeric  ", "evaluations  2     -none- numeric  ", "message      1     -none- character"],
  "model_report": {
    "N_pred": [0.4, 0.3665, 0.3295, 0.2901, 0.2494, 0.2088, 0.1697, 0.1335, 0.1015, 0.0748, 0.054, 0.039, 0.0292, 0.0234, 0.0204, 0.0193, 0.0195, 0.0204, 0.022, 0.024, 0.0265, 0.0294, 0.0327, 0.0365, 0.0408, 0.0456, 0.0508, 0.0566, 0.0629, 0.0697, 0.077, 0.0846, 0.0927, 0.1011, 0.1099, 0.1188, 0.128, 0.1372, 0.1466, 0.156, 0.1655, 0.1749, 0.1842, 0.1934, 0.2025, 0.2115, 0.2202, 0.2287, 0.237, 0.245, 0.2527, 0.2601, 0.2672, 0.2739, 0.2802, 0.2861, 0.2916, 0.2967, 0.3013, 0.3054, 0.309, 0.312, 0.3146, 0.3166, 0.3181, 0.3191, 0.3195, 0.3193, 0.3186, 0.3174, 0.3157, 0.3136, 0.311, 0.308, 0.3046, 0.3009, 0.297, 0.2928, 0.2885, 0.2841, 0.2796, 0.2751, 0.2707, 0.2664, 0.2622, 0.2583, 0.2545, 0.251, 0.2478, 0.2449, 0.2423, 0.24, 0.2381, 0.2365, 0.2353, 0.2344, 0.2338, 0.2336, 0.2336, 0.234, 0.2347, 0.2356, 0.2367, 0.2381, 0.2398, 0.2416, 0.2436, 0.2457, 0.248, 0.2504, 0.253, 0.2556, 0.2583, 0.2611, 0.2639, 0.2667, 0.2696, 0.2724, 0.2753, 0.2781, 0.281, 0.2837, 0.2865, 0.2891, 0.2917, 0.2942, 0.2967, 0.299, 0.3013, 0.3034, 0.3055, 0.3074, 0.3092, 0.3109, 0.3125, 0.314, 0.3153, 0.3165, 0.3176, 0.3186, 0.3194, 0.3201, 0.3207, 0.3211, 0.3215, 0.3217, 0.3218, 0.3218, 0.3216, 0.3214, 0.3211, 0.3206, 0.3201, 0.3195, 0.3188, 0.3181, 0.3172, 0.3163, 0.3153, 0.3143, 0.3132, 0.3121, 0.3109, 0.3097, 0.3084, 0.3072, 0.3059, 0.3045, 0.3032, 0.3018, 0.3005, 0.2991, 0.2977, 0.2963, 0.2949, 0.2935, 0.2921, 0.2907, 0.2893, 0.2879, 0.2865, 0.2852, 0.2838, 0.2824, 0.2811, 0.2797, 0.2784, 0.277, 0.2757, 0.2743, 0.273, 0.2716, 0.2703, 0.2689, 0.2676, 0.2662, 0.2648, 0.2635, 0.2621, 0.2607],
    "D_pred": [0.1, 0.1165, 0.1352, 0.1562, 0.1795, 0.2048, 0.2319, 0.2606, 0.2906, 0.3216, 0.3534, 0.3858, 0.4185, 0.4513, 0.4839, 0.516, 0.5475, 0.5779, 0.6071, 0.6347, 0.6606, 0.6845, 0.7063, 0.7257, 0.7427, 0.7573, 0.7695, 0.7793, 0.7869, 0.7924, 0.796, 0.7978, 0.7981, 0.797, 0.7947, 0.7914, 0.7872, 0.7823, 0.7768, 0.7707, 0.7642, 0.7574, 0.7504, 0.7431, 0.7358, 0.7283, 0.7208, 0.7133, 0.7058, 0.6984, 0.6912, 0.684, 0.677, 0.6702, 0.6635, 0.6572, 0.651, 0.6451, 0.6395, 0.6342, 0.6292, 0.6246, 0.6203, 0.6163, 0.6128, 0.6096, 0.6068, 0.6044, 0.6024, 0.6008, 0.5995, 0.5987, 0.5983, 0.5982, 0.5985, 0.5991, 0.6, 0.6012, 0.6027, 0.6044, 0.6063, 0.6083, 0.6105, 0.6127, 0.615, 0.6173, 0.6195, 0.6218, 0.6239, 0.6259, 0.6277, 0.6294, 0.6309, 0.6322, 0.6333, 0.6341, 0.6347, 0.6351, 0.6352, 0.635, 0.6345, 0.6339, 0.6329, 0.6318, 0.6304, 0.6288, 0.6269, 0.6249, 0.6227, 0.6203, 0.6178, 0.6151, 0.6123, 0.6094, 0.6064, 0.6033, 0.6001, 0.5968, 0.5935, 0.5902, 0.5868, 0.5834, 0.58, 0.5766, 0.5732, 0.5698, 0.5664, 0.5631, 0.5598, 0.5565, 0.5533, 0.5501, 0.547, 0.544, 0.541, 0.5381, 0.5353, 0.5326, 0.5299, 0.5273, 0.5248, 0.5224, 0.5201, 0.5178, 0.5157, 0.5136, 0.5116, 0.5097, 0.5079, 0.5061, 0.5044, 0.5029, 0.5013, 0.4999, 0.4985, 0.4972, 0.496, 0.4948, 0.4937, 0.4926, 0.4916, 0.4907, 0.4898, 0.4889, 0.4881, 0.4873, 0.4866, 0.4859, 0.4852, 0.4846, 0.484, 0.4834, 0.4828, 0.4822, 0.4817, 0.4812, 0.4807, 0.4802, 0.4797, 0.4793, 0.4788, 0.4784, 0.478, 0.4775, 0.4771, 0.4767, 0.4763, 0.476, 0.4756, 0.4752, 0.4749, 0.4745, 0.4742, 0.4739, 0.4736, 0.4733, 0.473, 0.4728, 0.4725, 0.4723],
    "Q_pred": [0.7413, 0.7316, 0.7309, 0.7298, 0.728, 0.7253, 0.7212, 0.7156, 0.7084, 0.6998, 0.6904, 0.6815, 0.674, 0.6685, 0.6652, 0.6635, 0.6629, 0.6632, 0.6638, 0.6649, 0.6661, 0.6676, 0.6692, 0.671, 0.673, 0.6751, 0.6773, 0.6796, 0.6821, 0.6845, 0.687, 0.6895, 0.6919, 0.6943, 0.6966, 0.6988, 0.7008, 0.7028, 0.7047, 0.7065, 0.7082, 0.7098, 0.7112, 0.7126, 0.7139, 0.7151, 0.7163, 0.7173, 0.7183, 0.7193, 0.7202, 0.721, 0.7218, 0.7225, 0.7232, 0.7238, 0.7244, 0.7249, 0.7255, 0.7259, 0.7264, 0.7268, 0.7272, 0.7275, 0.7279, 0.7281, 0.7284, 0.7286, 0.7288, 0.729, 0.7291, 0.7292, 0.7293, 0.7293, 0.7293, 0.7292, 0.7291, 0.729, 0.7289, 0.7287, 0.7284, 0.7282, 0.7279, 0.7276, 0.7273, 0.727, 0.7266, 0.7263, 0.726, 0.7257, 0.7254, 0.7251, 0.7248, 0.7246, 0.7244, 0.7243, 0.7241, 0.7241, 0.724, 0.724, 0.724, 0.7241, 0.7241, 0.7243, 0.7244, 0.7246, 0.7247, 0.7249, 0.7252, 0.7254, 0.7256, 0.7259, 0.7262, 0.7265, 0.7267, 0.727, 0.7273, 0.7276, 0.7279, 0.7282, 0.7285, 0.7288, 0.729, 0.7293, 0.7296, 0.7298, 0.7301, 0.7303, 0.7306, 0.7308, 0.731, 0.7313, 0.7315, 0.7317, 0.7319, 0.7321, 0.7322, 0.7324, 0.7326, 0.7327, 0.7328, 0.733, 0.7331, 0.7332, 0.7333, 0.7334, 0.7335, 0.7335, 0.7336, 0.7337, 0.7337, 0.7337, 0.7338, 0.7338, 0.7338, 0.7338, 0.7338, 0.7338, 0.7338, 0.7337, 0.7337, 0.7337, 0.7336, 0.7336, 0.7335, 0.7334, 0.7334, 0.7333, 0.7332, 0.7331, 0.733, 0.7329, 0.7328, 0.7327, 0.7326, 0.7325, 0.7324, 0.7323, 0.7322, 0.7321, 0.732, 0.7319, 0.7317, 0.7316, 0.7315, 0.7314, 0.7312, 0.7311, 0.731, 0.7309, 0.7307, 0.7306, 0.7305, 0.7303, 0.7302, 0.7301, 0.7299, 0.7298, 0.7296, 0.7295],
    "Z_pred": [0.05, 0.0523, 0.055, 0.0581, 0.0615, 0.0652, 0.0691, 0.0732, 0.0775, 0.0817, 0.086, 0.0902, 0.0944, 0.0986, 0.1027, 0.1067, 0.1106, 0.1143, 0.1178, 0.1209, 0.1237, 0.1261, 0.128, 0.1295, 0.1304, 0.1308, 0.1308, 0.1303, 0.1293, 0.128, 0.1264, 0.1245, 0.1224, 0.1202, 0.1179, 0.1155, 0.1131, 0.1107, 0.1083, 0.1059, 0.1036, 0.1014, 0.0993, 0.0972, 0.0952, 0.0933, 0.0915, 0.0898, 0.0882, 0.0867, 0.0852, 0.0839, 0.0827, 0.0815, 0.0805, 0.0795, 0.0786, 0.0778, 0.0771, 0.0765, 0.076, 0.0756, 0.0752, 0.075, 0.0748, 0.0747, 0.0747, 0.0748, 0.075, 0.0752, 0.0755, 0.0759, 0.0764, 0.0769, 0.0775, 0.0781, 0.0788, 0.0795, 0.0803, 0.0811, 0.0818, 0.0826, 0.0834, 0.0842, 0.085, 0.0857, 0.0864, 0.087, 0.0876, 0.0882, 0.0886, 0.0891, 0.0894, 0.0897, 0.0899, 0.0901, 0.0902, 0.0902, 0.0901, 0.09, 0.0899, 0.0896, 0.0894, 0.089, 0.0886, 0.0882, 0.0878, 0.0873, 0.0868, 0.0863, 0.0857, 0.0851, 0.0845, 0.084, 0.0834, 0.0828, 0.0822, 0.0816, 0.081, 0.0804, 0.0798, 0.0792, 0.0787, 0.0781, 0.0776, 0.0771, 0.0766, 0.0761, 0.0756, 0.0752, 0.0747, 0.0743, 0.0739, 0.0736, 0.0732, 0.0729, 0.0726, 0.0723, 0.072, 0.0718, 0.0715, 0.0713, 0.0711, 0.0709, 0.0708, 0.0706, 0.0705, 0.0704, 0.0703, 0.0702, 0.0701, 0.0701, 0.07, 0.07, 0.07, 0.0699, 0.0699, 0.0699, 0.0699, 0.0699, 0.0699, 0.07, 0.07, 0.07, 0.07, 0.0701, 0.0701, 0.0701, 0.0701, 0.0702, 0.0702, 0.0702, 0.0703, 0.0703, 0.0703, 0.0703, 0.0703, 0.0703, 0.0704, 0.0704, 0.0704, 0.0704, 0.0704, 0.0703, 0.0703, 0.0703, 0.0703, 0.0703, 0.0703, 0.0702, 0.0702, 0.0702, 0.0702, 0.0701, 0.0701, 0.0701, 0.07, 0.07, 0.07, 0.07],
    "P_pred": [0.1, 0.1147, 0.1295, 0.1438, 0.1568, 0.1679, 0.1768, 0.1834, 0.188, 0.1908, 0.1921, 0.192, 0.1905, 0.1876, 0.1833, 0.1776, 0.1707, 0.1627, 0.1539, 0.1444, 0.1345, 0.1243, 0.1142, 0.1042, 0.0946, 0.0855, 0.0771, 0.0693, 0.0624, 0.0561, 0.0506, 0.0458, 0.0417, 0.0381, 0.035, 0.0324, 0.0301, 0.0283, 0.0267, 0.0254, 0.0243, 0.0234, 0.0227, 0.0222, 0.0218, 0.0216, 0.0215, 0.0215, 0.0216, 0.0218, 0.0221, 0.0225, 0.023, 0.0235, 0.0242, 0.025, 0.0258, 0.0268, 0.0278, 0.0289, 0.0301, 0.0314, 0.0328, 0.0342, 0.0357, 0.0372, 0.0388, 0.0404, 0.042, 0.0436, 0.0452, 0.0468, 0.0483, 0.0498, 0.0511, 0.0524, 0.0535, 0.0545, 0.0553, 0.056, 0.0566, 0.0569, 0.0571, 0.0572, 0.0571, 0.0568, 0.0564, 0.0559, 0.0553, 0.0545, 0.0537, 0.0528, 0.0518, 0.0508, 0.0497, 0.0487, 0.0476, 0.0465, 0.0454, 0.0443, 0.0433, 0.0422, 0.0412, 0.0403, 0.0394, 0.0385, 0.0377, 0.0369, 0.0361, 0.0355, 0.0348, 0.0342, 0.0337, 0.0332, 0.0328, 0.0324, 0.032, 0.0317, 0.0314, 0.0312, 0.031, 0.0308, 0.0307, 0.0306, 0.0306, 0.0305, 0.0305, 0.0306, 0.0306, 0.0307, 0.0308, 0.0309, 0.0311, 0.0312, 0.0314, 0.0316, 0.0318, 0.032, 0.0322, 0.0325, 0.0327, 0.033, 0.0332, 0.0335, 0.0337, 0.034, 0.0343, 0.0345, 0.0348, 0.035, 0.0353, 0.0355, 0.0357, 0.0359, 0.0362, 0.0364, 0.0365, 0.0367, 0.0369, 0.037, 0.0372, 0.0373, 0.0375, 0.0376, 0.0377, 0.0378, 0.0378, 0.0379, 0.038, 0.038, 0.0381, 0.0381, 0.0381, 0.0382, 0.0382, 0.0382, 0.0382, 0.0382, 0.0382, 0.0382, 0.0382, 0.0382, 0.0383, 0.0383, 0.0383, 0.0383, 0.0383, 0.0383, 0.0383, 0.0383, 0.0384, 0.0384, 0.0384, 0.0385, 0.0385, 0.0386, 0.0387, 0.0387, 0.0388, 0.0389]
  },
  "plot_data": {
    "N_pred": {
      "Time": [0, 0.503, 1.005, 1.508, 2.01, 2.513, 3.015, 3.518, 4.02, 4.523, 5.025, 5.528, 6.03, 6.533, 7.035, 7.538, 8.04, 8.543, 9.045, 9.548, 10.05, 10.553, 11.055, 11.558, 12.06, 12.563, 13.065, 13.568, 14.07, 14.573, 15.075, 15.578, 16.08, 16.583, 17.085, 17.588, 18.09, 18.593, 19.095, 19.598, 20.101, 20.603, 21.106, 21.608, 22.111, 22.613, 23.116, 23.618, 24.121, 24.623, 25.126, 25.628, 26.131, 26.633, 27.136, 27.638, 28.141, 28.643, 29.146, 29.648, 30.151, 30.653, 31.156, 31.658, 32.161, 32.663, 33.166, 33.668, 34.171, 34.673, 35.176, 35.678, 36.181, 36.683, 37.186, 37.688, 38.191, 38.693, 39.196, 39.698, 40.201, 40.704, 41.206, 41.709, 42.211, 42.714, 43.216, 43.719, 44.221, 44.724, 45.226, 45.729, 46.231, 46.734, 47.236, 47.739, 48.241, 48.744, 49.246, 49.749, 50.251, 50.754, 51.256, 51.759, 52.261, 52.764, 53.266, 53.769, 54.271, 54.774, 55.276, 55.779, 56.281, 56.784, 57.286, 57.789, 58.291, 58.794, 59.296, 59.799, 60.302, 60.804, 61.307, 61.809, 62.312, 62.814, 63.317, 63.819, 64.322, 64.824, 65.327, 65.829, 66.332, 66.834, 67.337, 67.839, 68.342, 68.844, 69.347, 69.849, 70.352, 70.854, 71.357, 71.859, 72.362, 72.864, 73.367, 73.869, 74.372, 74.874, 75.377, 75.879, 76.382, 76.884, 77.387, 77.889, 78.392, 78.894, 79.397, 79.899, 80.402, 80.905, 81.407, 81.91, 82.412, 82.915, 83.417, 83.92, 84.422, 84.925, 85.427, 85.93, 86.432, 86.935, 87.437, 87.94, 88.442, 88.945, 89.447, 89.95, 90.452, 90.955, 91.457, 91.96, 92.462, 92.965, 93.467, 93.97, 94.472, 94.975, 95.477, 95.98, 96.482, 96.985, 97.487, 97.99, 98.492, 98.995, 99.497, 100],
      "Modeled": [0.4, 0.3665, 0.3295, 0.2901, 0.2494, 0.2088, 0.1697, 0.1335, 0.1015, 0.0748, 0.054, 0.039, 0.0292, 0.0234, 0.0204, 0.0193, 0.0195, 0.0204, 0.022, 0.024, 0.0265, 0.0294, 0.0327, 0.0365, 0.0408, 0.0456, 0.0508, 0.0566, 0.0629, 0.0697, 0.077, 0.0846, 0.0927, 0.1011, 0.1099, 0.1188, 0.128, 0.1372, 0.1466, 0.156, 0.1655, 0.1749, 0.1842, 0.1934, 0.2025, 0.2115, 0.2202, 0.2287, 0.237, 0.245, 0.2527, 0.2601, 0.2672, 0.2739, 0.2802, 0.2861, 0.2916, 0.2967, 0.3013, 0.3054, 0.309, 0.312, 0.3146, 0.3166, 0.3181, 0.3191, 0.3195, 0.3193, 0.3186, 0.3174, 0.3157, 0.3136, 0.311, 0.308, 0.3046, 0.3009, 0.297, 0.2928, 0.2885, 0.2841, 0.2796, 0.2751, 0.2707, 0.2664, 0.2622, 0.2583, 0.2545, 0.251, 0.2478, 0.2449, 0.2423, 0.24, 0.2381, 0.2365, 0.2353, 0.2344, 0.2338, 0.2336, 0.2336, 0.234, 0.2347, 0.2356, 0.2367, 0.2381, 0.2398, 0.2416, 0.2436, 0.2457, 0.248, 0.2504, 0.253, 0.2556, 0.2583, 0.2611, 0.2639, 0.2667, 0.2696, 0.2724, 0.2753, 0.2781, 0.281, 0.2837, 0.2865, 0.2891, 0.2917, 0.2942, 0.2967, 0.299, 0.3013, 0.3034, 0.3055, 0.3074, 0.3092, 0.3109, 0.3125, 0.314, 0.3153, 0.3165, 0.3176, 0.3186, 0.3194, 0.3201, 0.3207, 0.3211, 0.3215, 0.3217, 0.3218, 0.3218, 0.3216, 0.3214, 0.3211, 0.3206, 0.3201, 0.3195, 0.3188, 0.3181, 0.3172, 0.3163, 0.3153, 0.3143, 0.3132, 0.3121, 0.3109, 0.3097, 0.3084, 0.3072, 0.3059, 0.3045, 0.3032, 0.3018, 0.3005, 0.2991, 0.2977, 0.2963, 0.2949, 0.2935, 0.2921, 0.2907, 0.2893, 0.2879, 0.2865, 0.2852, 0.2838, 0.2824, 0.2811, 0.2797, 0.2784, 0.277, 0.2757, 0.2743, 0.273, 0.2716, 0.2703, 0.2689, 0.2676, 0.2662, 0.2648, 0.2635, 0.2621, 0.2607],
      "Observed": [0.4, 0.375, 0.346, 0.314, 0.278, 0.239, 0.197, 0.155, 0.114, 0.076, 0.048, 0.031, 0.023, 0.021, 0.021, 0.021, 0.022, 0.023, 0.024, 0.025, 0.026, 0.028, 0.03, 0.032, 0.035, 0.038, 0.043, 0.048, 0.055, 0.064, 0.075, 0.086, 0.098, 0.11, 0.122, 0.133, 0.144, 0.154, 0.165, 0.174, 0.184, 0.193, 0.201, 0.21, 0.217, 0.225, 0.232, 0.238, 0.245, 0.251, 0.256, 0.261, 0.266, 0.27, 0.274, 0.278, 0.281, 0.284, 0.287, 0.289, 0.291, 0.293, 0.295, 0.296, 0.296, 0.297, 0.297, 0.297, 0.297, 0.296, 0.295, 0.294, 0.293, 0.292, 0.29, 0.288, 0.286, 0.284, 0.282, 0.279, 0.277, 0.275, 0.272, 0.27, 0.268, 0.266, 0.264, 0.262, 0.261, 0.26, 0.259, 0.258, 0.258, 0.258, 0.259, 0.259, 0.26, 0.261, 0.263, 0.265, 0.266, 0.268, 0.27, 0.272, 0.274, 0.276, 0.278, 0.28, 0.282, 0.284, 0.285, 0.287, 0.288, 0.289, 0.29, 0.291, 0.292, 0.293, 0.293, 0.294, 0.294, 0.294, 0.294, 0.294, 0.293, 0.293, 0.292, 0.292, 0.291, 0.29, 0.289, 0.288, 0.287, 0.286, 0.285, 0.284, 0.283, 0.282, 0.281, 0.281, 0.28, 0.279, 0.278, 0.278, 0.278, 0.277, 0.277, 0.277, 0.277, 0.277, 0.277, 0.278, 0.278, 0.279, 0.279, 0.28, 0.281, 0.281, 0.282, 0.283, 0.284, 0.285, 0.285, 0.286, 0.287, 0.288, 0.289, 0.289, 0.29, 0.29, 0.291, 0.291, 0.291, 0.291, 0.291, 0.291, 0.291, 0.291, 0.291, 0.291, 0.29, 0.29, 0.29, 0.289, 0.289, 0.288, 0.288, 0.287, 0.287, 0.286, 0.286, 0.285, 0.285, 0.284, 0.284, 0.284, 0.283, 0.283, 0.283, 0.283]
    },
    "P_pred": {
      "Time": [0, 0.503, 1.005, 1.508, 2.01, 2.513, 3.015, 3.518, 4.02, 4.523, 5.025, 5.528, 6.03, 6.533, 7.035, 7.538, 8.04, 8.543, 9.045, 9.548, 10.05, 10.553, 11.055, 11.558, 12.06, 12.563, 13.065, 13.568, 14.07, 14.573, 15.075, 15.578, 16.08, 16.583, 17.085, 17.588, 18.09, 18.593, 19.095, 19.598, 20.101, 20.603, 21.106, 21.608, 22.111, 22.613, 23.116, 23.618, 24.121, 24.623, 25.126, 25.628, 26.131, 26.633, 27.136, 27.638, 28.141, 28.643, 29.146, 29.648, 30.151, 30.653, 31.156, 31.658, 32.161, 32.663, 33.166, 33.668, 34.171, 34.673, 35.176, 35.678, 36.181, 36.683, 37.186, 37.688, 38.191, 38.693, 39.196, 39.698, 40.201, 40.704, 41.206, 41.709, 42.211, 42.714, 43.216, 43.719, 44.221, 44.724, 45.226, 45.729, 46.231, 46.734, 47.236, 47.739, 48.241, 48.744, 49.246, 49.749, 50.251, 50.754, 51.256, 51.759, 52.261, 52.764, 53.266, 53.769, 54.271, 54.774, 55.276, 55.779, 56.281, 56.784, 57.286, 57.789, 58.291, 58.794, 59.296, 59.799, 60.302, 60.804, 61.307, 61.809, 62.312, 62.814, 63.317, 63.819, 64.322, 64.824, 65.327, 65.829, 66.332, 66.834, 67.337, 67.839, 68.342, 68.844, 69.347, 69.849, 70.352, 70.854, 71.357, 71.859, 72.362, 72.864, 73.367, 73.869, 74.372, 74.874, 75.377, 75.879, 76.382, 76.884, 77.387, 77.889, 78.392, 78.894, 79.397, 79.899, 80.402, 80.905, 81.407, 81.91, 82.412, 82.915, 83.417, 83.92, 84.422, 84.925, 85.427, 85.93, 86.432, 86.935, 87.437, 87.94, 88.442, 88.945, 89.447, 89.95, 90.452, 90.955, 91.457, 91.96, 92.462, 92.965, 93.467, 93.97, 94.472, 94.975, 95.477, 95.98, 96.482, 96.985, 97.487, 97.99, 98.492, 98.995, 99.497, 100],
      "Modeled": [0.1, 0.1147, 0.1295, 0.1438, 0.1568, 0.1679, 0.1768, 0.1834, 0.188, 0.1908, 0.1921, 0.192, 0.1905, 0.1876, 0.1833, 0.1776, 0.1707, 0.1627, 0.1539, 0.1444, 0.1345, 0.1243, 0.1142, 0.1042, 0.0946, 0.0855, 0.0771, 0.0693, 0.0624, 0.0561, 0.0506, 0.0458, 0.0417, 0.0381, 0.035, 0.0324, 0.0301, 0.0283, 0.0267, 0.0254, 0.0243, 0.0234, 0.0227, 0.0222, 0.0218, 0.0216, 0.0215, 0.0215, 0.0216, 0.0218, 0.0221, 0.0225, 0.023, 0.0235, 0.0242, 0.025, 0.0258, 0.0268, 0.0278, 0.0289, 0.0301, 0.0314, 0.0328, 0.0342, 0.0357, 0.0372, 0.0388, 0.0404, 0.042, 0.0436, 0.0452, 0.0468, 0.0483, 0.0498, 0.0511, 0.0524, 0.0535, 0.0545, 0.0553, 0.056, 0.0566, 0.0569, 0.0571, 0.0572, 0.0571, 0.0568, 0.0564, 0.0559, 0.0553, 0.0545, 0.0537, 0.0528, 0.0518, 0.0508, 0.0497, 0.0487, 0.0476, 0.0465, 0.0454, 0.0443, 0.0433, 0.0422, 0.0412, 0.0403, 0.0394, 0.0385, 0.0377, 0.0369, 0.0361, 0.0355, 0.0348, 0.0342, 0.0337, 0.0332, 0.0328, 0.0324, 0.032, 0.0317, 0.0314, 0.0312, 0.031, 0.0308, 0.0307, 0.0306, 0.0306, 0.0305, 0.0305, 0.0306, 0.0306, 0.0307, 0.0308, 0.0309, 0.0311, 0.0312, 0.0314, 0.0316, 0.0318, 0.032, 0.0322, 0.0325, 0.0327, 0.033, 0.0332, 0.0335, 0.0337, 0.034, 0.0343, 0.0345, 0.0348, 0.035, 0.0353, 0.0355, 0.0357, 0.0359, 0.0362, 0.0364, 0.0365, 0.0367, 0.0369, 0.037, 0.0372, 0.0373, 0.0375, 0.0376, 0.0377, 0.0378, 0.0378, 0.0379, 0.038, 0.038, 0.0381, 0.0381, 0.0381, 0.0382, 0.0382, 0.0382, 0.0382, 0.0382, 0.0382, 0.0382, 0.0382, 0.0382, 0.0383, 0.0383, 0.0383, 0.0383, 0.0383, 0.0383, 0.0383, 0.0383, 0.0384, 0.0384, 0.0384, 0.0385, 0.0385, 0.0386, 0.0387, 0.0387, 0.0388, 0.0389],
      "Observed": [0.1, 0.117, 0.138, 0.161, 0.187, 0.215, 0.245, 0.275, 0.303, 0.327, 0.341, 0.344, 0.336, 0.324, 0.31, 0.295, 0.28, 0.266, 0.251, 0.236, 0.22, 0.205, 0.19, 0.174, 0.157, 0.141, 0.123, 0.106, 0.087, 0.068, 0.05, 0.036, 0.025, 0.02, 0.016, 0.014, 0.013, 0.013, 0.013, 0.013, 0.013, 0.013, 0.013, 0.014, 0.014, 0.014, 0.015, 0.016, 0.016, 0.017, 0.017, 0.018, 0.019, 0.02, 0.02, 0.021, 0.022, 0.023, 0.024, 0.025, 0.026, 0.027, 0.027, 0.029, 0.03, 0.031, 0.032, 0.033, 0.034, 0.035, 0.036, 0.037, 0.038, 0.039, 0.04, 0.041, 0.042, 0.043, 0.044, 0.044, 0.045, 0.045, 0.046, 0.046, 0.046, 0.046, 0.046, 0.045, 0.045, 0.044, 0.043, 0.042, 0.041, 0.04, 0.038, 0.037, 0.036, 0.035, 0.033, 0.032, 0.031, 0.031, 0.03, 0.029, 0.029, 0.029, 0.029, 0.029, 0.029, 0.029, 0.029, 0.029, 0.029, 0.03, 0.03, 0.03, 0.031, 0.031, 0.032, 0.032, 0.033, 0.033, 0.034, 0.034, 0.035, 0.035, 0.036, 0.036, 0.037, 0.037, 0.038, 0.038, 0.038, 0.039, 0.039, 0.039, 0.039, 0.039, 0.039, 0.039, 0.039, 0.039, 0.039, 0.038, 0.038, 0.038, 0.037, 0.037, 0.036, 0.036, 0.036, 0.035, 0.035, 0.034, 0.034, 0.034, 0.033, 0.033, 0.033, 0.032, 0.032, 0.032, 0.032, 0.032, 0.032, 0.032, 0.032, 0.032, 0.032, 0.033, 0.033, 0.033, 0.033, 0.034, 0.034, 0.034, 0.034, 0.035, 0.035, 0.035, 0.035, 0.036, 0.036, 0.036, 0.036, 0.037, 0.037, 0.037, 0.037, 0.037, 0.037, 0.037, 0.037, 0.037, 0.037, 0.037, 0.037, 0.037, 0.036, 0.036]
    },
    "Z_pred": {
      "Time": [0, 0.503, 1.005, 1.508, 2.01, 2.513, 3.015, 3.518, 4.02, 4.523, 5.025, 5.528, 6.03, 6.533, 7.035, 7.538, 8.04, 8.543, 9.045, 9.548, 10.05, 10.553, 11.055, 11.558, 12.06, 12.563, 13.065, 13.568, 14.07, 14.573, 15.075, 15.578, 16.08, 16.583, 17.085, 17.588, 18.09, 18.593, 19.095, 19.598, 20.101, 20.603, 21.106, 21.608, 22.111, 22.613, 23.116, 23.618, 24.121, 24.623, 25.126, 25.628, 26.131, 26.633, 27.136, 27.638, 28.141, 28.643, 29.146, 29.648, 30.151, 30.653, 31.156, 31.658, 32.161, 32.663, 33.166, 33.668, 34.171, 34.673, 35.176, 35.678, 36.181, 36.683, 37.186, 37.688, 38.191, 38.693, 39.196, 39.698, 40.201, 40.704, 41.206, 41.709, 42.211, 42.714, 43.216, 43.719, 44.221, 44.724, 45.226, 45.729, 46.231, 46.734, 47.236, 47.739, 48.241, 48.744, 49.246, 49.749, 50.251, 50.754, 51.256, 51.759, 52.261, 52.764, 53.266, 53.769, 54.271, 54.774, 55.276, 55.779, 56.281, 56.784, 57.286, 57.789, 58.291, 58.794, 59.296, 59.799, 60.302, 60.804, 61.307, 61.809, 62.312, 62.814, 63.317, 63.819, 64.322, 64.824, 65.327, 65.829, 66.332, 66.834, 67.337, 67.839, 68.342, 68.844, 69.347, 69.849, 70.352, 70.854, 71.357, 71.859, 72.362, 72.864, 73.367, 73.869, 74.372, 74.874, 75.377, 75.879, 76.382, 76.884, 77.387, 77.889, 78.392, 78.894, 79.397, 79.899, 80.402, 80.905, 81.407, 81.91, 82.412, 82.915, 83.417, 83.92, 84.422, 84.925, 85.427, 85.93, 86.432, 86.935, 87.437, 87.94, 88.442, 88.945, 89.447, 89.95, 90.452, 90.955, 91.457, 91.96, 92.462, 92.965, 93.467, 93.97, 94.472, 94.975, 95.477, 95.98, 96.482, 96.985, 97.487, 97.99, 98.492, 98.995, 99.497, 100],
      "Modeled": [0.05, 0.0523, 0.055, 0.0581, 0.0615, 0.0652, 0.0691, 0.0732, 0.0775, 0.0817, 0.086, 0.0902, 0.0944, 0.0986, 0.1027, 0.1067, 0.1106, 0.1143, 0.1178, 0.1209, 0.1237, 0.1261, 0.128, 0.1295, 0.1304, 0.1308, 0.1308, 0.1303, 0.1293, 0.128, 0.1264, 0.1245, 0.1224, 0.1202, 0.1179, 0.1155, 0.1131, 0.1107, 0.1083, 0.1059, 0.1036, 0.1014, 0.0993, 0.0972, 0.0952, 0.0933, 0.0915, 0.0898, 0.0882, 0.0867, 0.0852, 0.0839, 0.0827, 0.0815, 0.0805, 0.0795, 0.0786, 0.0778, 0.0771, 0.0765, 0.076, 0.0756, 0.0752, 0.075, 0.0748, 0.0747, 0.0747, 0.0748, 0.075, 0.0752, 0.0755, 0.0759, 0.0764, 0.0769, 0.0775, 0.0781, 0.0788, 0.0795, 0.0803, 0.0811, 0.0818, 0.0826, 0.0834, 0.0842, 0.085, 0.0857, 0.0864, 0.087, 0.0876, 0.0882, 0.0886, 0.0891, 0.0894, 0.0897, 0.0899, 0.0901, 0.0902, 0.0902, 0.0901, 0.09, 0.0899, 0.0896, 0.0894, 0.089, 0.0886, 0.0882, 0.0878, 0.0873, 0.0868, 0.0863, 0.0857, 0.0851, 0.0845, 0.084, 0.0834, 0.0828, 0.0822, 0.0816, 0.081, 0.0804, 0.0798, 0.0792, 0.0787, 0.0781, 0.0776, 0.0771, 0.0766, 0.0761, 0.0756, 0.0752, 0.0747, 0.0743, 0.0739, 0.0736, 0.0732, 0.0729, 0.0726, 0.0723, 0.072, 0.0718, 0.0715, 0.0713, 0.0711, 0.0709, 0.0708, 0.0706, 0.0705, 0.0704, 0.0703, 0.0702, 0.0701, 0.0701, 0.07, 0.07, 0.07, 0.0699, 0.0699, 0.0699, 0.0699, 0.0699, 0.0699, 0.07, 0.07, 0.07, 0.07, 0.0701, 0.0701, 0.0701, 0.0701, 0.0702, 0.0702, 0.0702, 0.0703, 0.0703, 0.0703, 0.0703, 0.0703, 0.0703, 0.0704, 0.0704, 0.0704, 0.0704, 0.0704, 0.0703, 0.0703, 0.0703, 0.0703, 0.0703, 0.0703, 0.0702, 0.0702, 0.0702, 0.0702, 0.0701, 0.0701, 0.0701, 0.07, 0.07, 0.07, 0.07],
      "Observed": [0.05, 0.052, 0.053, 0.055, 0.057, 0.059, 0.061, 0.064, 0.066, 0.068, 0.071, 0.074, 0.076, 0.079, 0.082, 0.085, 0.088, 0.092, 0.095, 0.099, 0.102, 0.106, 0.11, 0.114, 0.118, 0.122, 0.126, 0.13, 0.134, 0.137, 0.139, 0.14, 0.14, 0.137, 0.134, 0.131, 0.127, 0.124, 0.12, 0.117, 0.113, 0.11, 0.107, 0.104, 0.101, 0.099, 0.096, 0.094, 0.091, 0.089, 0.087, 0.085, 0.083, 0.082, 0.08, 0.079, 0.078, 0.076, 0.075, 0.074, 0.073, 0.073, 0.072, 0.071, 0.071, 0.07, 0.07, 0.07, 0.07, 0.07, 0.07, 0.07, 0.07, 0.07, 0.071, 0.071, 0.071, 0.072, 0.072, 0.073, 0.074, 0.074, 0.075, 0.076, 0.077, 0.077, 0.078, 0.079, 0.08, 0.08, 0.081, 0.082, 0.082, 0.083, 0.083, 0.083, 0.083, 0.083, 0.083, 0.083, 0.083, 0.082, 0.082, 0.082, 0.081, 0.08, 0.08, 0.079, 0.079, 0.078, 0.078, 0.077, 0.076, 0.076, 0.076, 0.075, 0.075, 0.074, 0.074, 0.074, 0.074, 0.074, 0.073, 0.073, 0.073, 0.073, 0.073, 0.073, 0.074, 0.074, 0.074, 0.074, 0.074, 0.075, 0.075, 0.075, 0.076, 0.076, 0.076, 0.077, 0.077, 0.077, 0.077, 0.078, 0.078, 0.078, 0.078, 0.079, 0.079, 0.079, 0.079, 0.079, 0.079, 0.079, 0.079, 0.079, 0.079, 0.079, 0.078, 0.078, 0.078, 0.078, 0.078, 0.077, 0.077, 0.077, 0.076, 0.076, 0.076, 0.076, 0.076, 0.075, 0.075, 0.075, 0.075, 0.075, 0.075, 0.075, 0.075, 0.075, 0.075, 0.075, 0.075, 0.075, 0.075, 0.075, 0.075, 0.076, 0.076, 0.076, 0.076, 0.076, 0.076, 0.077, 0.077, 0.077, 0.077, 0.077, 0.077, 0.077]
    }
  }
}
JSON_REPORT_END[0m
[93mR script stderr:[0m
[0mLoading required package: TMB
Loading required package: jsonlite
here() starts at C:/Users/spi085/OneDrive - CSIRO/Documents/_Projects/SCCP-QuantModelling
using C++ compiler: 'G__~1.EXE (GCC) 13.2.0'
There were 14 warnings (use warnings() to see them)
Warning message:
`aes_string()` was deprecated in ggplot2 3.0.0.
ℹ Please use tidy evaluation idioms with `aes()`.
ℹ See also `vignette("ggplot2-in-packages")` for more information.[0m
[0mObjective value: 0.1839[0m
[94mObjective Value: 0.1839[0m
[92mSuccessful model run[0m
[0m--------------------------------------[0m
Model run successful. Objective value: 0.1839
Model ran successful and returned meaningful objective value... enhancing parameter descriptions.
Enhancing parameter descriptions...
Parameter processing completed.
