Parent PNG files: ['POPULATIONS\\POPULATION_0027\\INDIVIDUAL_RB5CMLYY\\N_pred_comparison.png', 'POPULATIONS\\POPULATION_0027\\INDIVIDUAL_RB5CMLYY\\P_pred_comparison.png', 'POPULATIONS\\POPULATION_0027\\INDIVIDUAL_RB5CMLYY\\Z_pred_comparison.png']
[?12l[?25hSkipping 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_M6PZQ1HD\model.cpp that matches 
gitignore spec.
Skipping 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_M6PZQ1HD\parameters.json that 
matches gitignore spec.
Skipping 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_M6PZQ1HD\intention.tex that matches
gitignore spec.
Creating empty file 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_M6PZQ1HD\intention.tex
Added C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_RB5CMLYY\N_pred_comparison
.png to read-only files.
Added C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_RB5CMLYY\P_pred_comparison
.png to read-only files.
Added C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_RB5CMLYY\Z_pred_comparison
.png to read-only files.
Based on the comparison plots, I     
notice that the model could better   
capture the dynamics of              
nutrient-dependent phytoplankton     
growth, particularly during          
low-nutrient conditions. I propose   
adding a variable nutrient storage   
mechanism for phytoplankton, which is
a well-documented ecological process 
where cells can store excess         
nutrients and continue growing for   
some time even when external         
nutrients become scarce.             

Let's make these changes:            

POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_M6PZQ1HD\parameters.json           

                                     
 <<<<<<< SEARCH                      
         {                           
             "parameter": "eta_base" 
             "description": "Baselin 
 phytoplankton nutrient uptake       
 efficiency",                        
             "source": "literature", 
             "import_type":          
 "PARAMETER",                        
             "priority": 2,          
             "enhanced_semantic_desc 
 ption": "Minimum efficiency of      
 nutrient uptake by phytoplankton    
 under nutrient-limited conditions", 
             "citations": [          
                 "https://doi.org/10 
 319/lo.2009.54.4.1025",             
                 "https://doi.org/10 
 016/j.pocean.2015.04.014"           
             ],                      
             "processed": true       
         },                          
 =======                             
         {                           
             "parameter": "eta_base" 
             "description": "Baselin 
 phytoplankton nutrient uptake       
 efficiency",                        
             "source": "literature", 
             "import_type":          
 "PARAMETER",                        
             "priority": 2,          
             "enhanced_semantic_desc 
 ption": "Minimum efficiency of      
 nutrient uptake by phytoplankton    
 under nutrient-limited conditions", 
             "citations": [          
                 "https://doi.org/10 
 319/lo.2009.54.4.1025",             
                 "https://doi.org/10 
 016/j.pocean.2015.04.014"           
             ],                      
             "processed": true       
         },                          
         {                           
             "parameter": "Q_max",   
             "value": 0.3,           
             "description": "Maximum 
 internal nutrient quota (g N/g C)", 
             "source": "literature", 
             "import_type":          
 "PARAMETER",                        
             "priority": 2,          
             "enhanced_semantic_desc 
 ption": "Maximum internal nutrient  
 storage capacity of phytoplankton   
 cells",                             
             "citations": [          
                 "https://doi.org/10 
 319/lo.1968.13.1.0156",             
                 "https://doi.org/10 
 016/0022-0981(96)02567-7"           
             ],                      
             "processed": true       
         },                          
         {                           
             "parameter": "Q_min",   
             "value": 0.05,          
             "description": "Minimum 
 internal nutrient quota (g N/g C)", 
             "source": "literature", 
             "import_type":          
 "PARAMETER",                        
             "priority": 2,          
             "enhanced_semantic_desc 
 ption": "Minimum internal nutrient  
 content required for phytoplankton  
 survival",                          
             "citations": [          
                 "https://doi.org/10 
 319/lo.1968.13.1.0156"              
             ],                      
             "processed": true       
         },                          
 >>>>>>> REPLACE                     
                                     

POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_M6PZQ1HD\model.cpp                 

                                     
 <<<<<<< SEARCH                      
       // Calculate nutrient-depende 
 uptake efficiency with baseline     
       Type eta_N = eta_base +       
 (eta_max - eta_base) / (Type(1.0) + 
 exp(-k_eta * (N - N_crit)));        
                                     
       // Calculate temperature and  
 light dependent rates               
       Type uptake = r_max *         
 temp_scale * photo_eff *            
 light_limitation * eta_N * N * P /  
 (K_N + N + eps);                    
 =======                             
       // Track internal nutrient    
 quota Q                             
       Type Q = N/(P + eps);  //     
 Current quota (N:P ratio)           
       Q = Q < Q_min ? Q_min : (Q >  
 Q_max ? Q_max : Q);                 
                                     
       // Calculate nutrient-depende 
 uptake efficiency with baseline and 
 quota limitation                    
       Type eta_N = eta_base +       
 (eta_max - eta_base) / (Type(1.0) + 
 exp(-k_eta * (N - N_crit)));        
       Type quota_limitation = (Q -  
 Q_min)/(Q_max - Q_min + eps);       
                                     
       // Calculate temperature and  
 light dependent rates with          
 quota-dependent growth              
       Type uptake = r_max *         
 temp_scale * photo_eff *            
 light_limitation * eta_N * N * P /  
 (K_N + N + eps);                    
       Type growth = r_max *         
 temp_scale * photo_eff *            
 light_limitation * quota_limitation 
 P;                                  
 >>>>>>> REPLACE                     
                                     

POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_M6PZQ1HD\intention.tex             

                                     
 <<<<<<< SEARCH                      
 =======                             
 \section{Ecological Mechanism:      
 Variable Nutrient Storage}          
                                     
 We have implemented a variable      
 nutrient storage mechanism for      
 phytoplankton using the Droop model 
 framework. This better represents h 
 phytoplankton cells can maintain    
 growth even when external nutrients 
 become scarce, through internal     
 nutrient reserves.                  
                                     
 The key additions are:              
 \begin{itemize}                     
     \item Internal nutrient quota ( 
 tracking the N:P ratio              
     \item Minimum (Q\_min) and      
 maximum (Q\_max) quota constraints  
     \item Growth rate now depends o 
 internal quota rather than external 
 nutrients                           
     \item Uptake rate still depends 
 on external nutrients               
 \end{itemize}                       
                                     
 This mechanism creates a more       
 realistic time delay between nutrie 
 depletion and growth reduction, as  
 observed in natural systems. It     
 allows phytoplankton to continue    
 growing for some time after externa 
 nutrients are depleted, using store 
 reserves. This better matches the   
 observed patterns in the comparison 
 plots, particularly the smoother    
 transitions in phytoplankton biomas 
 during nutrient-limited conditions. 
                                     
 The quota-based approach represents 
 fundamental biological process in   
 phytoplankton ecology and has stron 
 empirical support from laboratory a 
 field studies (Droop 1968, Klausmei 
 et al. 2004).                       
 >>>>>>> REPLACE                     
                                     

This change introduces variable      
nutrient storage in phytoplankton    
cells, which creates a more realistic
coupling between nutrient            
availability and growth. The model   
now distinguishes between nutrient   
uptake (dependent on external        
nutrients) and growth (dependent on  
internal stores), allowing for       
continued growth even when external  
nutrients are depleted. This should  
help better capture the observed     
dynamics, particularly the smoother  
transitions in phytoplankton biomass 
seen in the comparison plots.        

Tokens: 12k sent, 1.3k received. 
Cost: $0.06 message, $0.06 session.
Committing 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_M6PZQ1HD\parameters.json before 
applying edits.
Committing 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_M6PZQ1HD\model.cpp before applying 
edits.
Committing 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_M6PZQ1HD\intention.tex before 
applying edits.
Unable to add 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD\parameters.json: 
Cmd('git') failed due to: exit 
code(1)
  cmdline: git add 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD\parameters.json
  stderr: 'The following paths are 
ignored by one of your .gitignore 
files:
POPULATIONS
hint: Use -f if you really want to 
add them.
hint: Turn this message off by 
running
hint: "git config 
advice.addIgnoredFile false"'
Unable to add 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD\intention.tex: 
Cmd('git') failed due to: exit 
code(1)
  cmdline: git add 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD\intention.tex
  stderr: 'The following paths are 
ignored by one of your .gitignore 
files:
POPULATIONS
hint: Use -f if you really want to 
add them.
hint: Turn this message off by 
running
hint: "git config 
advice.addIgnoredFile false"'
Unable to add 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD\model.cpp: 
Cmd('git') failed due to: exit 
code(1)
  cmdline: git add 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD\model.cpp
  stderr: 'The following paths are 
ignored by one of your .gitignore 
files:
POPULATIONS
hint: Use -f if you really want to 
add them.
hint: Turn this message off by 
running
hint: "git config 
advice.addIgnoredFile false"'
Unable to commit: Cmd('git') failed 
due to: exit code(1)
  cmdline: git commit -m feat: Add 
new individual M6PZQ1HD with 
parameters, intention, and model 
files --no-verify -- 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD\parameters.json 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD\intention.tex 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD\model.cpp
  stderr: 'error: pathspec 
'C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD\parameters.json' 
did not match any file(s) known to 
git
error: pathspec 
'C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD\intention.tex' 
did not match any file(s) known to 
git
error: pathspec 
'C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantM
odelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\
INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD\model.cpp' did 
not match any file(s) known to git'
The LLM did not conform to the edit 
format.
https://aider.chat/docs/troubleshooti
ng/edit-errors.html

# 1 SEARCH/REPLACE block failed to 
match!

## SearchReplaceNoExactMatch: This 
SEARCH block failed to exactly match 
lines in 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_M6PZQ1HD\parameters.json
<<<<<<< SEARCH
        {
            "parameter": "eta_base",
            "description": "Baseline 
phytoplankton nutrient uptake 
efficiency",
            "source": "literature",
            "import_type": 
"PARAMETER",
            "priority": 2,
            "enhanced_semantic_descri
ption": "Minimum efficiency of 
nutrient uptake by phytoplankton 
under nutrient-limited conditions",
            "citations": [
                "https://doi.org/10.4
319/lo.2009.54.4.1025",
                "https://doi.org/10.1
016/j.pocean.2015.04.014"
            ],
            "processed": true
        },
=======
        {
            "parameter": "eta_base",
            "description": "Baseline 
phytoplankton nutrient uptake 
efficiency",
            "source": "literature",
            "import_type": 
"PARAMETER",
            "priority": 2,
            "enhanced_semantic_descri
ption": "Minimum efficiency of 
nutrient uptake by phytoplankton 
under nutrient-limited conditions",
            "citations": [
                "https://doi.org/10.4
319/lo.2009.54.4.1025",
                "https://doi.org/10.1
016/j.pocean.2015.04.014"
            ],
            "processed": true
        },
        {
            "parameter": "Q_max",
            "value": 0.3,
            "description": "Maximum 
internal nutrient quota (g N/g C)",
            "source": "literature",
            "import_type": 
"PARAMETER",
            "priority": 2,
            "enhanced_semantic_descri
ption": "Maximum internal nutrient 
storage capacity of phytoplankton 
cells",
            "citations": [
                "https://doi.org/10.4
319/lo.1968.13.1.0156",
                "https://doi.org/10.1
016/0022-0981(96)02567-7"
            ],
            "processed": true
        },
        {
            "parameter": "Q_min",
            "value": 0.05,
            "description": "Minimum 
internal nutrient quota (g N/g C)",
            "source": "literature",
            "import_type": 
"PARAMETER",
            "priority": 2,
            "enhanced_semantic_descri
ption": "Minimum internal nutrient 
content required for phytoplankton 
survival",
            "citations": [
                "https://doi.org/10.4
319/lo.1968.13.1.0156"
            ],
            "processed": true
        },
>>>>>>> REPLACE

Did you mean to match some of these 
actual lines from 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_M6PZQ1HD\parameters.json?

```
            "citations": [
                "https://doi.org/10.4
319/lo.2009.54.4.1025"
            ],
            "processed": true
        },
        {
            "parameter": "eta_base",
            "value": 0.5,
            "description": "Baseline 
phytoplankton nutrient uptake 
efficiency",
            "source": "literature",
            "import_type": 
"PARAMETER",
            "priority": 2,
            "enhanced_semantic_descri
ption": "Minimum efficiency of 
nutrient uptake by phytoplankton 
under nutrient-limited conditions",
            "citations": [
                "https://doi.org/10.4
319/lo.2009.54.4.1025",
                "https://doi.org/10.1
016/j.pocean.2015.04.014"
            ],
            "processed": true
        },
        {
            "parameter": "theta_P",
            "value": 0.5,
            "description": 
"Temperature sensitivity of grazing 
selectivity (dimensionless)",
```

The SEARCH section must exactly match
an existing block of lines including 
all white space, comments, 
indentation, docstrings, etc

# The other 2 SEARCH/REPLACE blocks 
were applied successfully.
Don't re-send them.
Just reply with fixed versions of the
block above that failed to match.

Let me fix that SEARCH/REPLACE block 
with the exact match from the file:  

POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUA
L_M6PZQ1HD\parameters.json           

                                     
 <<<<<<< SEARCH                      
         {                           
             "parameter": "eta_base" 
             "value": 0.5,           
             "description": "Baselin 
 phytoplankton nutrient uptake       
 efficiency",                        
             "source": "literature", 
             "import_type":          
 "PARAMETER",                        
             "priority": 2,          
             "enhanced_semantic_desc 
 ption": "Minimum efficiency of      
 nutrient uptake by phytoplankton    
 under nutrient-limited conditions", 
             "citations": [          
                 "https://doi.org/10 
 319/lo.2009.54.4.1025",             
                 "https://doi.org/10 
 016/j.pocean.2015.04.014"           
             ],                      
             "processed": true       
         },                          
 =======                             
         {                           
             "enhanced_semantic_description": "Minimum efficiency of  
 nutrient uptake by phytoplankton under nutrient-limited conditions", 
             "citations": [                                           
                 "https://doi.org/10.4319/lo.2009.54.4.1025",         
                 "https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pocean.2015.04.014"       
             ],                                                       
             "processed": true                                        
         },                                                           
         {                                                            
             "parameter": "Q_max",                                    
             "value": 0.3,                                            
             "description": "Maximum internal nutrient quota (g N/g   
 C)",                                                                 
             "source": "literature",                                  
             "import_type": "PARAMETER",                              
             "priority": 2,                                           
             "enhanced_semantic_description": "Maximum internal       
 nutrient storage capacity of phytoplankton cells",                   
             "citations": [                                           
                 "https://doi.org/10.4319/lo.1968.13.1.0156",         
                 "https://doi.org/10.1016/0022-0981(96)02567-7"       
             ],                                                       
             "processed": true                                        
         },                                                           
         {                                                            
             "parameter": "Q_min",                                    
             "value": 0.05,                                           
             "description": "Minimum internal nutrient quota (g N/g   
 C)",                                                                 
             "source": "literature",                                  
             "import_type": "PARAMETER",                              
             "priority": 2,                                           
             "enhanced_semantic_description": "Minimum internal       
 nutrient content required for phytoplankton survival",               
             "citations": [                                           
                 "https://doi.org/10.4319/lo.1968.13.1.0156"          
             ],                                                       
             "processed": true                                        
         },                                                           
 >>>>>>> REPLACE                                                      
                                                                      

Tokens: 15k sent, 604 received. Cost: $0.05 message, $0.11 session.
Committing 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD\parameters.json before
applying edits.
Unable to add C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0
027\INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD\parameters.json: Cmd('git') failed due to: 
exit code(1)
  cmdline: git add C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0
027\INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD\parameters.json
  stderr: 'The following paths are ignored by one of your .gitignore 
files:
POPULATIONS
hint: Use -f if you really want to add them.
hint: Turn this message off by running
hint: "git config advice.addIgnoredFile false"'
Unable to commit: Cmd('git') failed due to: exit code(1)
  cmdline: git commit -m feat: Add parameters file for 
INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD in POPULATION_0027 --no-verify -- 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0
027\INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD\parameters.json
  stderr: 'error: pathspec 'C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0
027\INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD\parameters.json' did not match any file(s) 
known to git'
Applied edit to 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD\parameters.json
Improved existing model in individual: POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD
Validating model for data leakage...
Opening file: POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD\model.cpp
File read successfully
Extracting vectors...
Found data vectors: {'P_dat', 'N_dat', 'Time', 'Z_dat'}
Found prediction vectors: {'D_pred', 'N_pred', 'Z_pred', 'Temp', 'P_pred'}
Found reported vectors: {'D_pred', 'Z_pred', 'P_pred', 'N_pred'}
Finding initial conditions...
Found 4 initial conditions
Finding time-stepping loop...
Found loop from line 77 to 170
Found response variables: {'P_dat', 'N_dat', 'Z_dat'}
[93mRunning model for individual...[0m
[0mIndividual directory: POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD[0m
[93mR script stdout:[0m
[0mg++ -std=gnu++17  -I"C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/include" -DNDEBUG -I"C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-44~1.1/library/TMB/include" -I"C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-44~1.1/library/RCPPEI~1/include"   -DTMB_EIGEN_DISABLE_WARNINGS   -DTMB_LIB_INIT=R_init_model  -DCPPAD_FRAMEWORK    -I"C:/rtools44/x86_64-w64-mingw32.static.posix/include"     -O2 -Wa,-mbig-obj -c POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD/model.cpp -o POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD/model.o[0m
[93mR script stderr:[0m
[0mLoading required package: TMB
Loading required package: jsonlite
here() starts at C:/Users/spi085/OneDrive - CSIRO/Documents/_Projects/SCCP-QuantModelling
using C++ compiler: 'G__~1.EXE (GCC) 13.2.0'
POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD/model.cpp: In member function 'Type objective_function<Type>::operator()()':
POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD/model.cpp:118:15: error: 'Q_min' was not declared in this scope; did you mean 'min'?
  118 |       Q = Q < Q_min ? Q_min : (Q > Q_max ? Q_max : Q);
      |               ^~~~~
      |               min
POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD/model.cpp:118:36: error: 'Q_max' was not declared in this scope; did you mean 'g_max'?
  118 |       Q = Q < Q_min ? Q_min : (Q > Q_max ? Q_max : Q);
      |                                    ^~~~~
      |                                    g_max
make: *** [C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/etc/x64/Makeconf:296: POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD/model.o] Error 1
Error in TMB::compile(file.path(individual_dir, model_file), flags = flags,  : 
  Compilation failed
Error: Compilation failed
Execution halted[0m
[91mModel failed to compile.[0m
MODEL RUN FINISHED
Error: Objective value is None
Initial run failed. Attempting to fix...
Fixing broken model iteration: 0
The error occurs because Q_min and Q_max need to be declared as       
parameters. Let me fix that by adding them to the parameters section: 

POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD\model.cpp             

                                                                      
 <<<<<<< SEARCH                                                       
   PARAMETER(eta_base);    // Baseline nutrient uptake efficiency     
                                                                      
                                                                      
   // Constants for numerical stability                               
 =======                                                              
   PARAMETER(eta_base);    // Baseline nutrient uptake efficiency     
   PARAMETER(Q_max);       // Maximum internal nutrient quota         
   PARAMETER(Q_min);       // Minimum internal nutrient quota         
                                                                      
   // Constants for numerical stability                               
 >>>>>>> REPLACE                                                      
                                                                      

This change adds the Q_max and Q_min parameters that were previously  
only defined in parameters.json. Now they will be properly accessible 
in the model code.                                                    

Tokens: 16k sent, 165 received. Cost: $0.05 message, $0.16 session.
Committing POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD\model.cpp 
before applying edits.
Unable to add C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0
027\INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD\model.cpp: Cmd('git') failed due to: exit 
code(1)
  cmdline: git add C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0
027\INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD\model.cpp
  stderr: 'The following paths are ignored by one of your .gitignore 
files:
POPULATIONS
hint: Use -f if you really want to add them.
hint: Turn this message off by running
hint: "git config advice.addIgnoredFile false"'
Unable to commit: Cmd('git') failed due to: exit code(1)
  cmdline: git commit -m feat: Add model.cpp for POPULATION_0027 
individual M6PZQ1HD --no-verify -- C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0
027\INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD\model.cpp
  stderr: 'error: pathspec 'C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModelling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0
027\INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD\model.cpp' did not match any file(s) known to 
git'
Applied edit to 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD\model.cpp
Validating fixed model for data leakage...
Opening file: POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD\model.cpp
File read successfully
Extracting vectors...
Found data vectors: {'P_dat', 'N_dat', 'Time', 'Z_dat'}
Found prediction vectors: {'D_pred', 'N_pred', 'Z_pred', 'Temp', 'P_pred'}
Found reported vectors: {'D_pred', 'Z_pred', 'P_pred', 'N_pred'}
Finding initial conditions...
Found 4 initial conditions
Finding time-stepping loop...
Found loop from line 78 to 171
Found response variables: {'P_dat', 'N_dat', 'Z_dat'}
[93mRunning model for individual...[0m
[0mIndividual directory: POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD[0m
[93mR script stdout:[0m
[0mg++ -std=gnu++17  -I"C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/include" -DNDEBUG -I"C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-44~1.1/library/TMB/include" -I"C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-44~1.1/library/RCPPEI~1/include"   -DTMB_EIGEN_DISABLE_WARNINGS   -DTMB_LIB_INIT=R_init_model  -DCPPAD_FRAMEWORK    -I"C:/rtools44/x86_64-w64-mingw32.static.posix/include"     -O2 -Wa,-mbig-obj -c POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD/model.cpp -o POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD/model.o
g++ -std=gnu++17 -shared -s -static-libgcc -o POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD/model.dll tmp.def POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_M6PZQ1HD/model.o -LC:/rtools44/x86_64-w64-mingw32.static.posix/lib/x64 -LC:/rtools44/x86_64-w64-mingw32.static.posix/lib -LC:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/bin/x64 -lR
Starting model phases
Number of phases: 4 
Phase 1 
Initial parameter values for phase 1 :
r_max g_max 
  1.0   0.4 
Final parameter values for phase 1 :
    r_max     g_max 
0.5139769 0.7488281 
Convergence message: relative convergence (4) 
Number of iterations: 16 
Objective function value: 35144.69 
Gradient at solution for phase 1 :
          [,1]        [,2]
[1,] 0.2434512 -0.03542822
Phase 2 
Initial parameter values for phase 2 :
       K_N        K_P alpha_base  alpha_max    K_alpha      m_P_N        s_P 
      0.10       0.20       0.20       0.30       0.10       0.15       0.15 
   s_P_max      m_Z_N        r_D      I_opt       beta        k_w        E_p 
      0.30       0.10       0.10     150.00       0.10       0.20       0.45 
   theta_P    eta_max      k_eta     N_crit   eta_base      Q_max      Q_min 
      0.50       1.50       5.00       0.15       0.50       0.30       0.05 
Final parameter values for phase 2 :
          K_N           K_P    alpha_base     alpha_max       K_alpha 
  0.044428787   0.183232360   0.339024838   0.003773643   0.046331154 
        m_P_N           s_P       s_P_max         m_Z_N           r_D 
 -0.019594691  -0.028904911   0.130405309   0.270976077   0.166755671 
        I_opt          beta           k_w           E_p       theta_P 
150.000000000   0.100000000  -1.262174128   0.450000000   0.500000000 
      eta_max         k_eta        N_crit      eta_base         Q_max 
  1.759321503   5.590350122   0.520179626   0.781276981   0.300000000 
        Q_min 
  0.050000000 
Convergence message: function evaluation limit reached without convergence (9) 
Number of iterations: 109 
Objective function value: 331.8755 
Gradient at solution for phase 2 :
          [,1]     [,2]     [,3]     [,4]     [,5]      [,6]     [,7]      [,8]
[1,] -1202.126 -457.374 238.5784 159.7684 13.52268 -48.77154 78.42528 -48.77154
          [,9]    [,10]         [,11] [,12]    [,13] [,14] [,15]     [,16]
[1,] -746.7532 407.5362 -1.804112e-16     0 5.388978     0     0 -97.10907
         [,17]    [,18]     [,19] [,20] [,21]
[1,] -9.819222 242.2764 -41.29856     0     0
Phase 3 
Initial parameter values for phase 3 :
 m_P  m_Z 
0.10 0.05 
Final parameter values for phase 3 :
       m_P        m_Z 
0.10058037 0.06241536 
Convergence message: relative convergence (4) 
Number of iterations: 18 
Objective function value: 320.763 
Gradient at solution for phase 3 :
             [,1]        [,2]
[1,] -0.003960351 0.006081759
Phase 4 
Initial parameter values for phase 4 :
sigma_N sigma_P sigma_Z 
    0.2     0.2     0.2 
Final parameter values for phase 4 :
  sigma_N   sigma_P   sigma_Z 
0.4131372 0.3115683 0.1361820 
Convergence message: relative convergence (4) 
Number of iterations: 22 
Objective function value: 84.71491 
Gradient at solution for phase 4 :
              [,1]         [,2]         [,3]
[1,] -0.0002994363 0.0001603605 0.0001771174
Final Phase
Initial parameter values for final phase:
        r_max           K_N         g_max           K_P    alpha_base 
  0.513976876   0.044428787   0.748828099   0.183232360   0.339024838 
    alpha_max       K_alpha           m_P         m_P_N           s_P 
  0.003773643   0.046331154   0.100580369  -0.019594691  -0.028904911 
      s_P_max           m_Z         m_Z_N           r_D       sigma_N 
  0.130405309   0.062415359   0.270976077   0.166755671   0.413137151 
      sigma_P       sigma_Z         I_opt          beta           k_w 
  0.311568268   0.136182003 150.000000000   0.100000000  -1.262174128 
          E_p       theta_P       eta_max         k_eta        N_crit 
  0.450000000   0.500000000   1.759321503   5.590350122   0.520179626 
     eta_base         Q_max         Q_min 
  0.781276981   0.300000000   0.050000000 
Final parameter values for final phase:
        r_max           K_N         g_max           K_P    alpha_base 
 4.626156e-01  4.191393e-03  6.079304e-01  1.561274e-01  2.307429e-01 
    alpha_max       K_alpha           m_P         m_P_N           s_P 
 6.260712e-02  1.976285e-01  7.252676e-04 -7.295597e-02  4.640335e-02 
      s_P_max           m_Z         m_Z_N           r_D       sigma_N 
 7.704403e-02  3.548597e-01  3.499136e-01  2.278791e-01  5.982935e-02 
      sigma_P       sigma_Z         I_opt          beta           k_w 
 4.396788e-01  6.712512e-02  1.500000e+02  1.000000e-01 -1.838461e+00 
          E_p       theta_P       eta_max         k_eta        N_crit 
 4.500000e-01  5.000000e-01  1.980054e+00  5.760837e+00  4.854723e-01 
     eta_base         Q_max         Q_min 
 3.590361e-01  3.000000e-01  5.000000e-02 
Convergence message: function evaluation limit reached without convergence (9) 
Number of iterations: 97 
Objective function value: -304.7848 
Gradient at solution for final phase:
          [,1]     [,2]     [,3]     [,4]      [,5]      [,6]     [,7]
[1,] -236.3466 8219.281 -1055.56 980.7294 -1309.823 -204.5576 54.05127
          [,8]      [,9]    [,10]     [,11]     [,12]    [,13]    [,14]
[1,] -7704.464 -267.6081 -1897.32 -267.6081 -334.9073 283.5782 185.6623
        [,15]    [,16]     [,17]         [,18] [,19]    [,20] [,21] [,22]
[1,] 338.6439 4.617275 -844.7291 -6.591949e-17     0 54.10146     0     0
         [,23]     [,24]    [,25]    [,26] [,27] [,28]
[1,] -131.4368 -22.85703 626.6228 422.4793     0     0
All phases completed

Running model validation...
No test data available (train_test_split >= 1.0)
NULL

DEBUG: Report contents:
List of 4
 $ N_pred: num [1:200] 0.4 0.378 0.344 0.304 0.26 ...
 $ D_pred: num [1:200] 0.1 0.0877 0.0803 0.0768 0.0765 ...
 $ Z_pred: num [1:200] 0.05 0.0524 0.0555 0.059 0.0632 ...
 $ P_pred: num [1:200] 0.1 0.13 0.164 0.2 0.235 ...
NULL

DEBUG: Available variables in report:
[1] "N_pred" "D_pred" "Z_pred" "P_pred"

Checking predictions and calculating objective function...

DEBUG: Processing N_pred 
DEBUG: First few predictions: 0.4 0.3776038 0.3442706 0.3035505 0.2595523 0.2158437 
DEBUG: Summary statistics:
   Min. 1st Qu.  Median    Mean 3rd Qu.    Max. 
0.01745 0.24666 0.27848 0.24622 0.29209 0.40000 
DEBUG: All zeros? FALSE 
DEBUG: Any infinities? FALSE 

DEBUG: Processing P_pred 
DEBUG: First few predictions: 0.1 0.1296863 0.1638951 0.199919 0.2345003 0.2649378 
DEBUG: Summary statistics:
   Min. 1st Qu.  Median    Mean 3rd Qu.    Max. 
0.01796 0.03354 0.03927 0.06992 0.05714 0.32844 
DEBUG: All zeros? FALSE 
DEBUG: Any infinities? FALSE 

DEBUG: Processing Z_pred 
DEBUG: First few predictions: 0.05000001 0.05242909 0.05545111 0.05904955 0.06316718 0.067716 
DEBUG: Summary statistics:
   Min. 1st Qu.  Median    Mean 3rd Qu.    Max. 
0.05000 0.07503 0.07757 0.08303 0.08796 0.11425 
DEBUG: All zeros? FALSE 
DEBUG: Any infinities? FALSE 

DEBUG: Using the following variables for objective function:
N_dat -> N_pred
P_dat -> P_pred
Z_dat -> Z_pred

DEBUG: Calculating MSE for prediction variables only:

DEBUG: N_pred 
Observed: 0.4 0.375 0.346 0.314 0.278 0.239 ...
Predicted: 0.4 0.3776038 0.3442706 0.3035505 0.2595523 0.2158437 ...
MSE (normalized): 0.02581644 

DEBUG: P_pred 
Observed: 0.1 0.117 0.138 0.161 0.187 0.215 ...
Predicted: 0.1 0.1296863 0.1638951 0.199919 0.2345003 0.2649378 ...
MSE (normalized): 0.09184781 

DEBUG: Z_pred 
Observed: 0.05 0.052 0.053 0.055 0.057 0.059 ...
Predicted: 0.05000001 0.05242909 0.05545111 0.05904955 0.06316718 0.067716 ...
MSE (normalized): 0.2579685 

DEBUG: MSE values:
     N_dat      P_dat      Z_dat 
0.02581644 0.09184781 0.25796846 

DEBUG: Final objective value (mean of MSEs): 0.1252109 

Final objective function value: 0.1252109 

JSON_REPORT_START
{
  "status": "SUCCESS",
  "objective_value": 0.1252,
  "model_summary": ["            Length Class  Mode     ", "par         28     -none- numeric  ", "objective    1     -none- numeric  ", "convergence  1     -none- numeric  ", "iterations   1     -none- numeric  ", "evaluations  2     -none- numeric  ", "message      1     -none- character"],
  "model_report": {
    "N_pred": [0.4, 0.3776, 0.3443, 0.3036, 0.2596, 0.2158, 0.1748, 0.1379, 0.1056, 0.0783, 0.0561, 0.039, 0.0271, 0.0203, 0.0176, 0.0175, 0.0186, 0.0204, 0.0225, 0.0248, 0.0273, 0.03, 0.0331, 0.0365, 0.0404, 0.0448, 0.0498, 0.0555, 0.062, 0.0692, 0.0773, 0.0862, 0.096, 0.1064, 0.1176, 0.1293, 0.1415, 0.154, 0.1666, 0.1792, 0.1916, 0.2036, 0.2152, 0.2263, 0.2368, 0.2465, 0.2556, 0.264, 0.2717, 0.2788, 0.2852, 0.2909, 0.2961, 0.3007, 0.3048, 0.3084, 0.3116, 0.3143, 0.3165, 0.3184, 0.3199, 0.3209, 0.3216, 0.322, 0.3219, 0.3215, 0.3207, 0.3196, 0.3182, 0.3163, 0.3142, 0.3116, 0.3088, 0.3057, 0.3023, 0.2986, 0.2948, 0.2907, 0.2866, 0.2823, 0.278, 0.2738, 0.2696, 0.2656, 0.2617, 0.2581, 0.2548, 0.2518, 0.2492, 0.2469, 0.2451, 0.2437, 0.2427, 0.2421, 0.2419, 0.2422, 0.2428, 0.2438, 0.2451, 0.2467, 0.2486, 0.2506, 0.2529, 0.2553, 0.2578, 0.2604, 0.2631, 0.2658, 0.2684, 0.2711, 0.2736, 0.2762, 0.2786, 0.2809, 0.2831, 0.2852, 0.2871, 0.2889, 0.2905, 0.292, 0.2934, 0.2946, 0.2957, 0.2966, 0.2973, 0.2979, 0.2984, 0.2987, 0.2989, 0.2989, 0.2989, 0.2987, 0.2983, 0.2979, 0.2973, 0.2967, 0.2959, 0.2951, 0.2942, 0.2932, 0.2922, 0.2911, 0.29, 0.2889, 0.2878, 0.2866, 0.2855, 0.2843, 0.2832, 0.2821, 0.2811, 0.2801, 0.2792, 0.2784, 0.2776, 0.2769, 0.2763, 0.2757, 0.2753, 0.2749, 0.2746, 0.2744, 0.2743, 0.2743, 0.2743, 0.2744, 0.2746, 0.2748, 0.2751, 0.2754, 0.2758, 0.2762, 0.2767, 0.2771, 0.2776, 0.2781, 0.2786, 0.2791, 0.2796, 0.2801, 0.2806, 0.281, 0.2815, 0.2819, 0.2823, 0.2826, 0.2829, 0.2832, 0.2834, 0.2836, 0.2837, 0.2838, 0.2839, 0.2839, 0.2838, 0.2837, 0.2836, 0.2835, 0.2832, 0.283],
    "D_pred": [0.1, 0.0877, 0.0803, 0.0768, 0.0765, 0.0787, 0.0827, 0.0882, 0.0948, 0.1021, 0.1097, 0.1173, 0.1243, 0.1301, 0.1343, 0.1369, 0.1381, 0.1382, 0.1377, 0.1368, 0.1357, 0.1346, 0.1335, 0.1324, 0.1314, 0.1305, 0.1296, 0.1286, 0.1277, 0.1266, 0.1253, 0.1238, 0.122, 0.1198, 0.1172, 0.1141, 0.1106, 0.1067, 0.1024, 0.0977, 0.0928, 0.0877, 0.0826, 0.0775, 0.0725, 0.0677, 0.0631, 0.0589, 0.0549, 0.0513, 0.048, 0.045, 0.0423, 0.0399, 0.0377, 0.0359, 0.0342, 0.0328, 0.0316, 0.0306, 0.0298, 0.0291, 0.0286, 0.0282, 0.028, 0.0279, 0.0279, 0.0281, 0.0284, 0.0288, 0.0293, 0.03, 0.0307, 0.0316, 0.0325, 0.0336, 0.0347, 0.0359, 0.0371, 0.0385, 0.0398, 0.0412, 0.0426, 0.0441, 0.0455, 0.0469, 0.0482, 0.0495, 0.0507, 0.0518, 0.0528, 0.0537, 0.0544, 0.0551, 0.0555, 0.0559, 0.056, 0.0561, 0.056, 0.0557, 0.0553, 0.0548, 0.0542, 0.0534, 0.0526, 0.0517, 0.0508, 0.0498, 0.0487, 0.0477, 0.0466, 0.0456, 0.0446, 0.0436, 0.0426, 0.0417, 0.0408, 0.0399, 0.0392, 0.0384, 0.0378, 0.0371, 0.0366, 0.0361, 0.0356, 0.0353, 0.0349, 0.0347, 0.0344, 0.0343, 0.0342, 0.0341, 0.0341, 0.0341, 0.0341, 0.0342, 0.0344, 0.0346, 0.0348, 0.035, 0.0353, 0.0355, 0.0358, 0.0362, 0.0365, 0.0368, 0.0372, 0.0375, 0.0379, 0.0382, 0.0385, 0.0389, 0.0392, 0.0395, 0.0397, 0.04, 0.0402, 0.0404, 0.0406, 0.0407, 0.0409, 0.041, 0.041, 0.041, 0.041, 0.041, 0.041, 0.0409, 0.0408, 0.0406, 0.0405, 0.0403, 0.0401, 0.0399, 0.0397, 0.0395, 0.0392, 0.039, 0.0387, 0.0385, 0.0383, 0.038, 0.0378, 0.0375, 0.0373, 0.0371, 0.0369, 0.0367, 0.0365, 0.0364, 0.0362, 0.0361, 0.036, 0.0359, 0.0358, 0.0357, 0.0356, 0.0356, 0.0356, 0.0355],
    "Z_pred": [0.05, 0.0524, 0.0555, 0.059, 0.0632, 0.0677, 0.0726, 0.0776, 0.0827, 0.0876, 0.092, 0.0956, 0.098, 0.0988, 0.0984, 0.0975, 0.0966, 0.096, 0.0958, 0.0959, 0.0963, 0.0969, 0.0977, 0.0987, 0.0999, 0.1012, 0.1026, 0.1041, 0.1057, 0.1072, 0.1087, 0.1101, 0.1114, 0.1125, 0.1133, 0.1139, 0.1142, 0.1142, 0.1139, 0.1133, 0.1124, 0.1113, 0.1099, 0.1084, 0.1067, 0.1048, 0.1029, 0.101, 0.099, 0.0971, 0.0952, 0.0933, 0.0914, 0.0897, 0.0879, 0.0863, 0.0848, 0.0833, 0.0819, 0.0806, 0.0794, 0.0782, 0.0772, 0.0763, 0.0754, 0.0746, 0.074, 0.0734, 0.0729, 0.0726, 0.0723, 0.0721, 0.072, 0.0721, 0.0722, 0.0724, 0.0727, 0.0731, 0.0735, 0.0741, 0.0747, 0.0754, 0.0762, 0.0769, 0.0778, 0.0786, 0.0795, 0.0804, 0.0813, 0.0821, 0.083, 0.0838, 0.0845, 0.0852, 0.0859, 0.0865, 0.087, 0.0874, 0.0877, 0.088, 0.0882, 0.0882, 0.0883, 0.0882, 0.088, 0.0878, 0.0875, 0.0872, 0.0868, 0.0864, 0.0859, 0.0854, 0.0848, 0.0842, 0.0837, 0.0831, 0.0825, 0.0819, 0.0813, 0.0807, 0.0801, 0.0795, 0.079, 0.0785, 0.078, 0.0775, 0.077, 0.0766, 0.0762, 0.0758, 0.0755, 0.0752, 0.0749, 0.0747, 0.0745, 0.0743, 0.0742, 0.0741, 0.074, 0.074, 0.074, 0.074, 0.074, 0.0741, 0.0742, 0.0743, 0.0744, 0.0746, 0.0747, 0.0749, 0.0751, 0.0753, 0.0755, 0.0757, 0.0759, 0.0761, 0.0763, 0.0764, 0.0766, 0.0768, 0.0769, 0.0771, 0.0772, 0.0773, 0.0774, 0.0775, 0.0775, 0.0776, 0.0776, 0.0776, 0.0776, 0.0776, 0.0775, 0.0775, 0.0774, 0.0773, 0.0772, 0.0771, 0.0769, 0.0768, 0.0767, 0.0765, 0.0764, 0.0762, 0.076, 0.0759, 0.0757, 0.0755, 0.0754, 0.0752, 0.0751, 0.0749, 0.0748, 0.0746, 0.0745, 0.0744, 0.0743, 0.0742, 0.0741, 0.074],
    "P_pred": [0.1, 0.1297, 0.1639, 0.1999, 0.2345, 0.2649, 0.2897, 0.3081, 0.3204, 0.327, 0.3284, 0.3252, 0.3179, 0.3072, 0.2946, 0.2817, 0.2695, 0.2581, 0.2476, 0.2377, 0.2283, 0.2191, 0.21, 0.201, 0.192, 0.1828, 0.1735, 0.1641, 0.1544, 0.1446, 0.1347, 0.1248, 0.1149, 0.1051, 0.0956, 0.0864, 0.0778, 0.0696, 0.0621, 0.0554, 0.0493, 0.0439, 0.0393, 0.0353, 0.0318, 0.0289, 0.0265, 0.0245, 0.0228, 0.0215, 0.0204, 0.0195, 0.0189, 0.0184, 0.0181, 0.018, 0.018, 0.0181, 0.0184, 0.0187, 0.0192, 0.0199, 0.0206, 0.0215, 0.0225, 0.0236, 0.0249, 0.0262, 0.0278, 0.0294, 0.0311, 0.033, 0.035, 0.037, 0.0391, 0.0413, 0.0435, 0.0457, 0.0478, 0.0499, 0.0519, 0.0538, 0.0555, 0.057, 0.0583, 0.0593, 0.0601, 0.0607, 0.061, 0.061, 0.0608, 0.0603, 0.0597, 0.0588, 0.0577, 0.0565, 0.0551, 0.0536, 0.0521, 0.0505, 0.0489, 0.0473, 0.0457, 0.0442, 0.0427, 0.0412, 0.0398, 0.0386, 0.0374, 0.0362, 0.0352, 0.0343, 0.0335, 0.0327, 0.0321, 0.0315, 0.031, 0.0306, 0.0303, 0.0301, 0.0299, 0.0298, 0.0298, 0.0298, 0.0299, 0.0301, 0.0303, 0.0306, 0.0309, 0.0312, 0.0316, 0.0321, 0.0325, 0.033, 0.0336, 0.0341, 0.0347, 0.0353, 0.0358, 0.0364, 0.037, 0.0376, 0.0382, 0.0387, 0.0392, 0.0397, 0.0402, 0.0406, 0.041, 0.0414, 0.0417, 0.0419, 0.0421, 0.0423, 0.0424, 0.0425, 0.0425, 0.0424, 0.0423, 0.0422, 0.042, 0.0418, 0.0416, 0.0413, 0.0411, 0.0408, 0.0404, 0.0401, 0.0397, 0.0394, 0.039, 0.0387, 0.0383, 0.038, 0.0376, 0.0373, 0.037, 0.0367, 0.0364, 0.0362, 0.0359, 0.0357, 0.0355, 0.0354, 0.0352, 0.0351, 0.035, 0.0349, 0.0349, 0.0349, 0.0349, 0.0349, 0.0349, 0.035, 0.0351, 0.0352, 0.0353, 0.0354, 0.0355, 0.0357]
  },
  "plot_data": {
    "N_pred": {
      "Time": [0, 0.503, 1.005, 1.508, 2.01, 2.513, 3.015, 3.518, 4.02, 4.523, 5.025, 5.528, 6.03, 6.533, 7.035, 7.538, 8.04, 8.543, 9.045, 9.548, 10.05, 10.553, 11.055, 11.558, 12.06, 12.563, 13.065, 13.568, 14.07, 14.573, 15.075, 15.578, 16.08, 16.583, 17.085, 17.588, 18.09, 18.593, 19.095, 19.598, 20.101, 20.603, 21.106, 21.608, 22.111, 22.613, 23.116, 23.618, 24.121, 24.623, 25.126, 25.628, 26.131, 26.633, 27.136, 27.638, 28.141, 28.643, 29.146, 29.648, 30.151, 30.653, 31.156, 31.658, 32.161, 32.663, 33.166, 33.668, 34.171, 34.673, 35.176, 35.678, 36.181, 36.683, 37.186, 37.688, 38.191, 38.693, 39.196, 39.698, 40.201, 40.704, 41.206, 41.709, 42.211, 42.714, 43.216, 43.719, 44.221, 44.724, 45.226, 45.729, 46.231, 46.734, 47.236, 47.739, 48.241, 48.744, 49.246, 49.749, 50.251, 50.754, 51.256, 51.759, 52.261, 52.764, 53.266, 53.769, 54.271, 54.774, 55.276, 55.779, 56.281, 56.784, 57.286, 57.789, 58.291, 58.794, 59.296, 59.799, 60.302, 60.804, 61.307, 61.809, 62.312, 62.814, 63.317, 63.819, 64.322, 64.824, 65.327, 65.829, 66.332, 66.834, 67.337, 67.839, 68.342, 68.844, 69.347, 69.849, 70.352, 70.854, 71.357, 71.859, 72.362, 72.864, 73.367, 73.869, 74.372, 74.874, 75.377, 75.879, 76.382, 76.884, 77.387, 77.889, 78.392, 78.894, 79.397, 79.899, 80.402, 80.905, 81.407, 81.91, 82.412, 82.915, 83.417, 83.92, 84.422, 84.925, 85.427, 85.93, 86.432, 86.935, 87.437, 87.94, 88.442, 88.945, 89.447, 89.95, 90.452, 90.955, 91.457, 91.96, 92.462, 92.965, 93.467, 93.97, 94.472, 94.975, 95.477, 95.98, 96.482, 96.985, 97.487, 97.99, 98.492, 98.995, 99.497, 100],
      "Modeled": [0.4, 0.3776, 0.3443, 0.3036, 0.2596, 0.2158, 0.1748, 0.1379, 0.1056, 0.0783, 0.0561, 0.039, 0.0271, 0.0203, 0.0176, 0.0175, 0.0186, 0.0204, 0.0225, 0.0248, 0.0273, 0.03, 0.0331, 0.0365, 0.0404, 0.0448, 0.0498, 0.0555, 0.062, 0.0692, 0.0773, 0.0862, 0.096, 0.1064, 0.1176, 0.1293, 0.1415, 0.154, 0.1666, 0.1792, 0.1916, 0.2036, 0.2152, 0.2263, 0.2368, 0.2465, 0.2556, 0.264, 0.2717, 0.2788, 0.2852, 0.2909, 0.2961, 0.3007, 0.3048, 0.3084, 0.3116, 0.3143, 0.3165, 0.3184, 0.3199, 0.3209, 0.3216, 0.322, 0.3219, 0.3215, 0.3207, 0.3196, 0.3182, 0.3163, 0.3142, 0.3116, 0.3088, 0.3057, 0.3023, 0.2986, 0.2948, 0.2907, 0.2866, 0.2823, 0.278, 0.2738, 0.2696, 0.2656, 0.2617, 0.2581, 0.2548, 0.2518, 0.2492, 0.2469, 0.2451, 0.2437, 0.2427, 0.2421, 0.2419, 0.2422, 0.2428, 0.2438, 0.2451, 0.2467, 0.2486, 0.2506, 0.2529, 0.2553, 0.2578, 0.2604, 0.2631, 0.2658, 0.2684, 0.2711, 0.2736, 0.2762, 0.2786, 0.2809, 0.2831, 0.2852, 0.2871, 0.2889, 0.2905, 0.292, 0.2934, 0.2946, 0.2957, 0.2966, 0.2973, 0.2979, 0.2984, 0.2987, 0.2989, 0.2989, 0.2989, 0.2987, 0.2983, 0.2979, 0.2973, 0.2967, 0.2959, 0.2951, 0.2942, 0.2932, 0.2922, 0.2911, 0.29, 0.2889, 0.2878, 0.2866, 0.2855, 0.2843, 0.2832, 0.2821, 0.2811, 0.2801, 0.2792, 0.2784, 0.2776, 0.2769, 0.2763, 0.2757, 0.2753, 0.2749, 0.2746, 0.2744, 0.2743, 0.2743, 0.2743, 0.2744, 0.2746, 0.2748, 0.2751, 0.2754, 0.2758, 0.2762, 0.2767, 0.2771, 0.2776, 0.2781, 0.2786, 0.2791, 0.2796, 0.2801, 0.2806, 0.281, 0.2815, 0.2819, 0.2823, 0.2826, 0.2829, 0.2832, 0.2834, 0.2836, 0.2837, 0.2838, 0.2839, 0.2839, 0.2838, 0.2837, 0.2836, 0.2835, 0.2832, 0.283],
      "Observed": [0.4, 0.375, 0.346, 0.314, 0.278, 0.239, 0.197, 0.155, 0.114, 0.076, 0.048, 0.031, 0.023, 0.021, 0.021, 0.021, 0.022, 0.023, 0.024, 0.025, 0.026, 0.028, 0.03, 0.032, 0.035, 0.038, 0.043, 0.048, 0.055, 0.064, 0.075, 0.086, 0.098, 0.11, 0.122, 0.133, 0.144, 0.154, 0.165, 0.174, 0.184, 0.193, 0.201, 0.21, 0.217, 0.225, 0.232, 0.238, 0.245, 0.251, 0.256, 0.261, 0.266, 0.27, 0.274, 0.278, 0.281, 0.284, 0.287, 0.289, 0.291, 0.293, 0.295, 0.296, 0.296, 0.297, 0.297, 0.297, 0.297, 0.296, 0.295, 0.294, 0.293, 0.292, 0.29, 0.288, 0.286, 0.284, 0.282, 0.279, 0.277, 0.275, 0.272, 0.27, 0.268, 0.266, 0.264, 0.262, 0.261, 0.26, 0.259, 0.258, 0.258, 0.258, 0.259, 0.259, 0.26, 0.261, 0.263, 0.265, 0.266, 0.268, 0.27, 0.272, 0.274, 0.276, 0.278, 0.28, 0.282, 0.284, 0.285, 0.287, 0.288, 0.289, 0.29, 0.291, 0.292, 0.293, 0.293, 0.294, 0.294, 0.294, 0.294, 0.294, 0.293, 0.293, 0.292, 0.292, 0.291, 0.29, 0.289, 0.288, 0.287, 0.286, 0.285, 0.284, 0.283, 0.282, 0.281, 0.281, 0.28, 0.279, 0.278, 0.278, 0.278, 0.277, 0.277, 0.277, 0.277, 0.277, 0.277, 0.278, 0.278, 0.279, 0.279, 0.28, 0.281, 0.281, 0.282, 0.283, 0.284, 0.285, 0.285, 0.286, 0.287, 0.288, 0.289, 0.289, 0.29, 0.29, 0.291, 0.291, 0.291, 0.291, 0.291, 0.291, 0.291, 0.291, 0.291, 0.291, 0.29, 0.29, 0.29, 0.289, 0.289, 0.288, 0.288, 0.287, 0.287, 0.286, 0.286, 0.285, 0.285, 0.284, 0.284, 0.284, 0.283, 0.283, 0.283, 0.283]
    },
    "P_pred": {
      "Time": [0, 0.503, 1.005, 1.508, 2.01, 2.513, 3.015, 3.518, 4.02, 4.523, 5.025, 5.528, 6.03, 6.533, 7.035, 7.538, 8.04, 8.543, 9.045, 9.548, 10.05, 10.553, 11.055, 11.558, 12.06, 12.563, 13.065, 13.568, 14.07, 14.573, 15.075, 15.578, 16.08, 16.583, 17.085, 17.588, 18.09, 18.593, 19.095, 19.598, 20.101, 20.603, 21.106, 21.608, 22.111, 22.613, 23.116, 23.618, 24.121, 24.623, 25.126, 25.628, 26.131, 26.633, 27.136, 27.638, 28.141, 28.643, 29.146, 29.648, 30.151, 30.653, 31.156, 31.658, 32.161, 32.663, 33.166, 33.668, 34.171, 34.673, 35.176, 35.678, 36.181, 36.683, 37.186, 37.688, 38.191, 38.693, 39.196, 39.698, 40.201, 40.704, 41.206, 41.709, 42.211, 42.714, 43.216, 43.719, 44.221, 44.724, 45.226, 45.729, 46.231, 46.734, 47.236, 47.739, 48.241, 48.744, 49.246, 49.749, 50.251, 50.754, 51.256, 51.759, 52.261, 52.764, 53.266, 53.769, 54.271, 54.774, 55.276, 55.779, 56.281, 56.784, 57.286, 57.789, 58.291, 58.794, 59.296, 59.799, 60.302, 60.804, 61.307, 61.809, 62.312, 62.814, 63.317, 63.819, 64.322, 64.824, 65.327, 65.829, 66.332, 66.834, 67.337, 67.839, 68.342, 68.844, 69.347, 69.849, 70.352, 70.854, 71.357, 71.859, 72.362, 72.864, 73.367, 73.869, 74.372, 74.874, 75.377, 75.879, 76.382, 76.884, 77.387, 77.889, 78.392, 78.894, 79.397, 79.899, 80.402, 80.905, 81.407, 81.91, 82.412, 82.915, 83.417, 83.92, 84.422, 84.925, 85.427, 85.93, 86.432, 86.935, 87.437, 87.94, 88.442, 88.945, 89.447, 89.95, 90.452, 90.955, 91.457, 91.96, 92.462, 92.965, 93.467, 93.97, 94.472, 94.975, 95.477, 95.98, 96.482, 96.985, 97.487, 97.99, 98.492, 98.995, 99.497, 100],
      "Modeled": [0.1, 0.1297, 0.1639, 0.1999, 0.2345, 0.2649, 0.2897, 0.3081, 0.3204, 0.327, 0.3284, 0.3252, 0.3179, 0.3072, 0.2946, 0.2817, 0.2695, 0.2581, 0.2476, 0.2377, 0.2283, 0.2191, 0.21, 0.201, 0.192, 0.1828, 0.1735, 0.1641, 0.1544, 0.1446, 0.1347, 0.1248, 0.1149, 0.1051, 0.0956, 0.0864, 0.0778, 0.0696, 0.0621, 0.0554, 0.0493, 0.0439, 0.0393, 0.0353, 0.0318, 0.0289, 0.0265, 0.0245, 0.0228, 0.0215, 0.0204, 0.0195, 0.0189, 0.0184, 0.0181, 0.018, 0.018, 0.0181, 0.0184, 0.0187, 0.0192, 0.0199, 0.0206, 0.0215, 0.0225, 0.0236, 0.0249, 0.0262, 0.0278, 0.0294, 0.0311, 0.033, 0.035, 0.037, 0.0391, 0.0413, 0.0435, 0.0457, 0.0478, 0.0499, 0.0519, 0.0538, 0.0555, 0.057, 0.0583, 0.0593, 0.0601, 0.0607, 0.061, 0.061, 0.0608, 0.0603, 0.0597, 0.0588, 0.0577, 0.0565, 0.0551, 0.0536, 0.0521, 0.0505, 0.0489, 0.0473, 0.0457, 0.0442, 0.0427, 0.0412, 0.0398, 0.0386, 0.0374, 0.0362, 0.0352, 0.0343, 0.0335, 0.0327, 0.0321, 0.0315, 0.031, 0.0306, 0.0303, 0.0301, 0.0299, 0.0298, 0.0298, 0.0298, 0.0299, 0.0301, 0.0303, 0.0306, 0.0309, 0.0312, 0.0316, 0.0321, 0.0325, 0.033, 0.0336, 0.0341, 0.0347, 0.0353, 0.0358, 0.0364, 0.037, 0.0376, 0.0382, 0.0387, 0.0392, 0.0397, 0.0402, 0.0406, 0.041, 0.0414, 0.0417, 0.0419, 0.0421, 0.0423, 0.0424, 0.0425, 0.0425, 0.0424, 0.0423, 0.0422, 0.042, 0.0418, 0.0416, 0.0413, 0.0411, 0.0408, 0.0404, 0.0401, 0.0397, 0.0394, 0.039, 0.0387, 0.0383, 0.038, 0.0376, 0.0373, 0.037, 0.0367, 0.0364, 0.0362, 0.0359, 0.0357, 0.0355, 0.0354, 0.0352, 0.0351, 0.035, 0.0349, 0.0349, 0.0349, 0.0349, 0.0349, 0.0349, 0.035, 0.0351, 0.0352, 0.0353, 0.0354, 0.0355, 0.0357],
      "Observed": [0.1, 0.117, 0.138, 0.161, 0.187, 0.215, 0.245, 0.275, 0.303, 0.327, 0.341, 0.344, 0.336, 0.324, 0.31, 0.295, 0.28, 0.266, 0.251, 0.236, 0.22, 0.205, 0.19, 0.174, 0.157, 0.141, 0.123, 0.106, 0.087, 0.068, 0.05, 0.036, 0.025, 0.02, 0.016, 0.014, 0.013, 0.013, 0.013, 0.013, 0.013, 0.013, 0.013, 0.014, 0.014, 0.014, 0.015, 0.016, 0.016, 0.017, 0.017, 0.018, 0.019, 0.02, 0.02, 0.021, 0.022, 0.023, 0.024, 0.025, 0.026, 0.027, 0.027, 0.029, 0.03, 0.031, 0.032, 0.033, 0.034, 0.035, 0.036, 0.037, 0.038, 0.039, 0.04, 0.041, 0.042, 0.043, 0.044, 0.044, 0.045, 0.045, 0.046, 0.046, 0.046, 0.046, 0.046, 0.045, 0.045, 0.044, 0.043, 0.042, 0.041, 0.04, 0.038, 0.037, 0.036, 0.035, 0.033, 0.032, 0.031, 0.031, 0.03, 0.029, 0.029, 0.029, 0.029, 0.029, 0.029, 0.029, 0.029, 0.029, 0.029, 0.03, 0.03, 0.03, 0.031, 0.031, 0.032, 0.032, 0.033, 0.033, 0.034, 0.034, 0.035, 0.035, 0.036, 0.036, 0.037, 0.037, 0.038, 0.038, 0.038, 0.039, 0.039, 0.039, 0.039, 0.039, 0.039, 0.039, 0.039, 0.039, 0.039, 0.038, 0.038, 0.038, 0.037, 0.037, 0.036, 0.036, 0.036, 0.035, 0.035, 0.034, 0.034, 0.034, 0.033, 0.033, 0.033, 0.032, 0.032, 0.032, 0.032, 0.032, 0.032, 0.032, 0.032, 0.032, 0.032, 0.033, 0.033, 0.033, 0.033, 0.034, 0.034, 0.034, 0.034, 0.035, 0.035, 0.035, 0.035, 0.036, 0.036, 0.036, 0.036, 0.037, 0.037, 0.037, 0.037, 0.037, 0.037, 0.037, 0.037, 0.037, 0.037, 0.037, 0.037, 0.037, 0.036, 0.036]
    },
    "Z_pred": {
      "Time": [0, 0.503, 1.005, 1.508, 2.01, 2.513, 3.015, 3.518, 4.02, 4.523, 5.025, 5.528, 6.03, 6.533, 7.035, 7.538, 8.04, 8.543, 9.045, 9.548, 10.05, 10.553, 11.055, 11.558, 12.06, 12.563, 13.065, 13.568, 14.07, 14.573, 15.075, 15.578, 16.08, 16.583, 17.085, 17.588, 18.09, 18.593, 19.095, 19.598, 20.101, 20.603, 21.106, 21.608, 22.111, 22.613, 23.116, 23.618, 24.121, 24.623, 25.126, 25.628, 26.131, 26.633, 27.136, 27.638, 28.141, 28.643, 29.146, 29.648, 30.151, 30.653, 31.156, 31.658, 32.161, 32.663, 33.166, 33.668, 34.171, 34.673, 35.176, 35.678, 36.181, 36.683, 37.186, 37.688, 38.191, 38.693, 39.196, 39.698, 40.201, 40.704, 41.206, 41.709, 42.211, 42.714, 43.216, 43.719, 44.221, 44.724, 45.226, 45.729, 46.231, 46.734, 47.236, 47.739, 48.241, 48.744, 49.246, 49.749, 50.251, 50.754, 51.256, 51.759, 52.261, 52.764, 53.266, 53.769, 54.271, 54.774, 55.276, 55.779, 56.281, 56.784, 57.286, 57.789, 58.291, 58.794, 59.296, 59.799, 60.302, 60.804, 61.307, 61.809, 62.312, 62.814, 63.317, 63.819, 64.322, 64.824, 65.327, 65.829, 66.332, 66.834, 67.337, 67.839, 68.342, 68.844, 69.347, 69.849, 70.352, 70.854, 71.357, 71.859, 72.362, 72.864, 73.367, 73.869, 74.372, 74.874, 75.377, 75.879, 76.382, 76.884, 77.387, 77.889, 78.392, 78.894, 79.397, 79.899, 80.402, 80.905, 81.407, 81.91, 82.412, 82.915, 83.417, 83.92, 84.422, 84.925, 85.427, 85.93, 86.432, 86.935, 87.437, 87.94, 88.442, 88.945, 89.447, 89.95, 90.452, 90.955, 91.457, 91.96, 92.462, 92.965, 93.467, 93.97, 94.472, 94.975, 95.477, 95.98, 96.482, 96.985, 97.487, 97.99, 98.492, 98.995, 99.497, 100],
      "Modeled": [0.05, 0.0524, 0.0555, 0.059, 0.0632, 0.0677, 0.0726, 0.0776, 0.0827, 0.0876, 0.092, 0.0956, 0.098, 0.0988, 0.0984, 0.0975, 0.0966, 0.096, 0.0958, 0.0959, 0.0963, 0.0969, 0.0977, 0.0987, 0.0999, 0.1012, 0.1026, 0.1041, 0.1057, 0.1072, 0.1087, 0.1101, 0.1114, 0.1125, 0.1133, 0.1139, 0.1142, 0.1142, 0.1139, 0.1133, 0.1124, 0.1113, 0.1099, 0.1084, 0.1067, 0.1048, 0.1029, 0.101, 0.099, 0.0971, 0.0952, 0.0933, 0.0914, 0.0897, 0.0879, 0.0863, 0.0848, 0.0833, 0.0819, 0.0806, 0.0794, 0.0782, 0.0772, 0.0763, 0.0754, 0.0746, 0.074, 0.0734, 0.0729, 0.0726, 0.0723, 0.0721, 0.072, 0.0721, 0.0722, 0.0724, 0.0727, 0.0731, 0.0735, 0.0741, 0.0747, 0.0754, 0.0762, 0.0769, 0.0778, 0.0786, 0.0795, 0.0804, 0.0813, 0.0821, 0.083, 0.0838, 0.0845, 0.0852, 0.0859, 0.0865, 0.087, 0.0874, 0.0877, 0.088, 0.0882, 0.0882, 0.0883, 0.0882, 0.088, 0.0878, 0.0875, 0.0872, 0.0868, 0.0864, 0.0859, 0.0854, 0.0848, 0.0842, 0.0837, 0.0831, 0.0825, 0.0819, 0.0813, 0.0807, 0.0801, 0.0795, 0.079, 0.0785, 0.078, 0.0775, 0.077, 0.0766, 0.0762, 0.0758, 0.0755, 0.0752, 0.0749, 0.0747, 0.0745, 0.0743, 0.0742, 0.0741, 0.074, 0.074, 0.074, 0.074, 0.074, 0.0741, 0.0742, 0.0743, 0.0744, 0.0746, 0.0747, 0.0749, 0.0751, 0.0753, 0.0755, 0.0757, 0.0759, 0.0761, 0.0763, 0.0764, 0.0766, 0.0768, 0.0769, 0.0771, 0.0772, 0.0773, 0.0774, 0.0775, 0.0775, 0.0776, 0.0776, 0.0776, 0.0776, 0.0776, 0.0775, 0.0775, 0.0774, 0.0773, 0.0772, 0.0771, 0.0769, 0.0768, 0.0767, 0.0765, 0.0764, 0.0762, 0.076, 0.0759, 0.0757, 0.0755, 0.0754, 0.0752, 0.0751, 0.0749, 0.0748, 0.0746, 0.0745, 0.0744, 0.0743, 0.0742, 0.0741, 0.074],
      "Observed": [0.05, 0.052, 0.053, 0.055, 0.057, 0.059, 0.061, 0.064, 0.066, 0.068, 0.071, 0.074, 0.076, 0.079, 0.082, 0.085, 0.088, 0.092, 0.095, 0.099, 0.102, 0.106, 0.11, 0.114, 0.118, 0.122, 0.126, 0.13, 0.134, 0.137, 0.139, 0.14, 0.14, 0.137, 0.134, 0.131, 0.127, 0.124, 0.12, 0.117, 0.113, 0.11, 0.107, 0.104, 0.101, 0.099, 0.096, 0.094, 0.091, 0.089, 0.087, 0.085, 0.083, 0.082, 0.08, 0.079, 0.078, 0.076, 0.075, 0.074, 0.073, 0.073, 0.072, 0.071, 0.071, 0.07, 0.07, 0.07, 0.07, 0.07, 0.07, 0.07, 0.07, 0.07, 0.071, 0.071, 0.071, 0.072, 0.072, 0.073, 0.074, 0.074, 0.075, 0.076, 0.077, 0.077, 0.078, 0.079, 0.08, 0.08, 0.081, 0.082, 0.082, 0.083, 0.083, 0.083, 0.083, 0.083, 0.083, 0.083, 0.083, 0.082, 0.082, 0.082, 0.081, 0.08, 0.08, 0.079, 0.079, 0.078, 0.078, 0.077, 0.076, 0.076, 0.076, 0.075, 0.075, 0.074, 0.074, 0.074, 0.074, 0.074, 0.073, 0.073, 0.073, 0.073, 0.073, 0.073, 0.074, 0.074, 0.074, 0.074, 0.074, 0.075, 0.075, 0.075, 0.076, 0.076, 0.076, 0.077, 0.077, 0.077, 0.077, 0.078, 0.078, 0.078, 0.078, 0.079, 0.079, 0.079, 0.079, 0.079, 0.079, 0.079, 0.079, 0.079, 0.079, 0.079, 0.078, 0.078, 0.078, 0.078, 0.078, 0.077, 0.077, 0.077, 0.076, 0.076, 0.076, 0.076, 0.076, 0.075, 0.075, 0.075, 0.075, 0.075, 0.075, 0.075, 0.075, 0.075, 0.075, 0.075, 0.075, 0.075, 0.075, 0.075, 0.075, 0.076, 0.076, 0.076, 0.076, 0.076, 0.076, 0.077, 0.077, 0.077, 0.077, 0.077, 0.077, 0.077]
    }
  }
}
JSON_REPORT_END[0m
[93mR script stderr:[0m
[0mLoading required package: TMB
Loading required package: jsonlite
here() starts at C:/Users/spi085/OneDrive - CSIRO/Documents/_Projects/SCCP-QuantModelling
using C++ compiler: 'G__~1.EXE (GCC) 13.2.0'
There were 18 warnings (use warnings() to see them)
Warning message:
`aes_string()` was deprecated in ggplot2 3.0.0.
ℹ Please use tidy evaluation idioms with `aes()`.
ℹ See also `vignette("ggplot2-in-packages")` for more information.[0m
[0mObjective value: 0.1252[0m
[94mObjective Value: 0.1252[0m
[92mSuccessful model run[0m
[0m--------------------------------------[0m
Model run successful. Objective value: 0.1252
Model ran successful and returned meaningful objective value... enhancing parameter descriptions.
Enhancing parameter descriptions...
Parameter processing completed.
