Parent PNG files: ['POPULATIONS\\POPULATION_0027\\INDIVIDUAL_R9VDMARD\\N_pred_comparison.png', 'POPULATIONS\\POPULATION_0027\\INDIVIDUAL_R9VDMARD\\P_pred_comparison.png', 'POPULATIONS\\POPULATION_0027\\INDIVIDUAL_R9VDMARD\\Z_pred_comparison.png']
[?12l[?25hSkipping 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LX
V1UI50\model.cpp that matches gitignore 
spec.
Skipping 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LX
V1UI50\parameters.json that matches 
gitignore spec.
Skipping 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LX
V1UI50\intention.tex that matches 
gitignore spec.
Creating empty file 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LX
V1UI50\intention.tex
Added C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_R9VDMARD\N_pred_comparison.png to 
read-only files.
Added C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_R9VDMARD\P_pred_comparison.png to 
read-only files.
Added C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_R9VDMARD\Z_pred_comparison.png to 
read-only files.
Looking at the prediction plots, I notice
the model underestimates peak            
phytoplankton blooms and has some timing 
mismatches. One key ecological mechanism 
that could improve this is nutrient      
storage by phytoplankton - many species  
can store excess nutrients during        
favorable conditions and use them later  
when nutrients become scarce.            

I'll add a luxury uptake mechanism where 
phytoplankton can take up nutrients      
faster than needed for growth when       
nutrients are abundant, storing them for 
later use. This creates an important     
feedback where stored nutrients buffer   
against limitation and affect growth     
efficiency.                              

Here are the changes:                    

POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LX
V1UI50\parameters.json                   

                                         
 <<<<<<< SEARCH                          
         "parameter": "N_crit",          
         "value": 0.15,                  
         "description": "Critical nutrie 
 concentration for efficiency switch (g  
 m^-3)",                                 
         "source": "literature",         
         "import_type": "PARAMETER",     
         "priority": 2,                  
         "enhanced_semantic_description" 
 "Nutrient concentration at which uptake 
 efficiency response is centered,        
 representing a physiological threshold" 
         "citations": [                  
             "https://doi.org/10.4319/lo 
 009.54.4.1025"                          
         ],                              
         "processed": true               
     }                                   
 =======                                 
         "parameter": "N_crit",          
         "value": 0.15,                  
         "description": "Critical nutrie 
 concentration for efficiency switch (g  
 m^-3)",                                 
         "source": "literature",         
         "import_type": "PARAMETER",     
         "priority": 2,                  
         "enhanced_semantic_description" 
 "Nutrient concentration at which uptake 
 efficiency response is centered,        
 representing a physiological threshold" 
         "citations": [                  
             "https://doi.org/10.4319/lo 
 009.54.4.1025"                          
         ],                              
         "processed": true               
     },                                  
     {                                   
         "parameter": "Q_max",           
         "value": 0.4,                   
         "description": "Maximum interna 
 nutrient quota (g N/g C)",              
         "source": "literature",         
         "import_type": "PARAMETER",     
         "priority": 2,                  
         "enhanced_semantic_description" 
 "Maximum ratio of stored nutrients to   
 carbon biomass in phytoplankton cells", 
         "citations": [                  
             "https://doi.org/10.4319/lo 
 968.13.1.0156",                         
             "https://doi.org/10.3354/me 
 07655"                                  
         ],                              
         "processed": true               
     },                                  
     {                                   
         "parameter": "Q_min",           
         "value": 0.05,                  
         "description": "Minimum interna 
 nutrient quota (g N/g C)",              
         "source": "literature",         
         "import_type": "PARAMETER",     
         "priority": 2,                  
         "enhanced_semantic_description" 
 "Minimum nutrient to carbon ratio       
 required for phytoplankton survival",   
         "citations": [                  
             "https://doi.org/10.4319/lo 
 968.13.1.0156"                          
         ],                              
         "processed": true               
     }                                   
 >>>>>>> REPLACE                         
                                         

POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LX
V1UI50\intention.tex                     

                                         
 <<<<<<< SEARCH                          
 =======                                 
 This model incorporates luxury nutrient 
 uptake by phytoplankton, an important   
 ecological mechanism where cells can    
 store excess nutrients when they are    
 abundant. This storage provides a buffe 
 against nutrient limitation and better  
 represents the adaptive strategies of   
 phytoplankton.                          
                                         
 The key additions are:                  
 - Internal nutrient quota (Q) tracking  
 for phytoplankton                       
 - Uptake rate that depends on both      
 external nutrients and current quota    
 - Growth rate dependent on internal quo 
 rather than external nutrients          
 - Separate equations for nutrient uptak 
 and growth                              
                                         
 This mechanism helps explain:           
 - More realistic bloom dynamics as stor 
 nutrients enable continued growth       
 - Better timing of population changes d 
 to nutrient storage buffers             
 - More accurate representation of       
 nutrient-limited growth                 
 - Improved capture of luxury uptake     
 during favorable conditions             
                                         
 The Droop equation relates growth to    
 internal quota: Î¼ = Î¼max * (1 - Qmin/Q) 
 Uptake follows Michaelis-Menten kinetic 
 but is down-regulated as Q approaches   
 Qmax.                                   
 >>>>>>> REPLACE                         
                                         

POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LX
V1UI50\model.cpp                         

                                         
 <<<<<<< SEARCH                          
       // Calculate nutrient-dependent   
 uptake efficiency                       
       Type eta_N = eta_max / (Type(1.0) 
 exp(-k_eta * (N - N_crit)));            
                                         
       // Calculate temperature and ligh 
 dependent rates with adaptive efficienc 
       Type uptake = r_max * temp_scale  
 photo_eff * light_limitation * eta_N *  
 * P / (K_N + N + eps);                  
       Type grazing = g_max * temp_scale 
 P * Z / (K_P_T + P + eps);              
 =======                                 
       // Track internal nutrient quota  
       Type Q = N/P;  // Current quota   
                                         
       // Nutrient uptake depends on     
 external concentration and current quot 
       Type uptake_regulation = (Q_max - 
 Q)/(Q_max - Q_min);  // Approaches 0 as 
 Q->Q_max                                
       Type uptake = r_max * temp_scale  
 uptake_regulation * N * P / (K_N + N +  
 eps);                                   
                                         
       // Growth depends on internal quo 
 (Droop equation)                        
       Type growth_rate = r_max *        
 temp_scale * photo_eff * light_limitati 
 * (1.0 - Q_min/Q);                      
       Type growth = growth_rate * P;    
                                         
       Type grazing = g_max * temp_scale 
 P * Z / (K_P_T + P + eps);              
 >>>>>>> REPLACE                         
                                         

                                         
 <<<<<<< SEARCH                          
       // System of differential equatio 
       Type dN = -uptake + remin;        
                                         
       // Enhanced mortality and sinking 
 under nutrient stress                   
       Type nutrient_stress = m_P_N * K_ 
 / (N + K_N + eps);                      
       Type sinking = (s_P + s_P_max * K 
 / (N + K_N + eps)) * P;                 
       Type dP = uptake - grazing - (m_P 
 nutrient_stress) * P - sinking;         
 =======                                 
       // System of differential equatio 
       Type dN = -uptake + remin;        
                                         
       // Enhanced mortality and sinking 
 under nutrient stress                   
       Type nutrient_stress = m_P_N *    
 Q_min / (Q + eps);  // Now based on     
 internal quota                          
       Type sinking = (s_P + s_P_max *   
 Q_min / (Q + eps)) * P;                 
       Type dP = growth - grazing - (m_P 
 nutrient_stress) * P - sinking;         
 >>>>>>> REPLACE                         
                                         

These changes better represent how       
phytoplankton actually handle nutrients  
in nature, with internal storage         
providing a buffer against limitation.   
This should improve the model's ability  
to capture bloom dynamics and nutrient   
cycling patterns.                        

Tokens: 12k sent, 1.4k received. Cost: 
$0.06 message, $0.06 session.
Committing 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LX
V1UI50\parameters.json before applying 
edits.
Committing 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LX
V1UI50\intention.tex before applying 
edits.
Committing 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LX
V1UI50\model.cpp before applying edits.
Unable to add C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\parameters.json: Cmd('git') 
failed due to: exit code(1)
  cmdline: git add 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\parameters.json
  stderr: 'The following paths are 
ignored by one of your .gitignore files:
POPULATIONS
hint: Use -f if you really want to add 
them.
hint: Turn this message off by running
hint: "git config advice.addIgnoredFile 
false"'
Unable to add C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\intention.tex: Cmd('git') 
failed due to: exit code(1)
  cmdline: git add 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\intention.tex
  stderr: 'The following paths are 
ignored by one of your .gitignore files:
POPULATIONS
hint: Use -f if you really want to add 
them.
hint: Turn this message off by running
hint: "git config advice.addIgnoredFile 
false"'
Unable to add C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\model.cpp: Cmd('git') failed 
due to: exit code(1)
  cmdline: git add 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\model.cpp
  stderr: 'The following paths are 
ignored by one of your .gitignore files:
POPULATIONS
hint: Use -f if you really want to add 
them.
hint: Turn this message off by running
hint: "git config advice.addIgnoredFile 
false"'
Unable to commit: Cmd('git') failed due 
to: exit code(1)
  cmdline: git commit -m feat: Add new 
individual INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50 to 
POPULATION_0027 --no-verify -- 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\parameters.json 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\intention.tex 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\model.cpp
  stderr: 'error: pathspec 
'C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\parameters.json' did not 
match any file(s) known to git
error: pathspec 'C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive
- 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\intention.tex' did not match 
any file(s) known to git
error: pathspec 'C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive
- 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\model.cpp' did not match any 
file(s) known to git'
The LLM did not conform to the edit 
format.
https://aider.chat/docs/troubleshooting/e
dit-errors.html

# 1 SEARCH/REPLACE block failed to match!

## SearchReplaceNoExactMatch: This SEARCH
block failed to exactly match lines in 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LX
V1UI50\parameters.json
<<<<<<< SEARCH
        "parameter": "N_crit",
        "value": 0.15,
        "description": "Critical nutrient
concentration for efficiency switch (g C 
m^-3)",
        "source": "literature",
        "import_type": "PARAMETER",
        "priority": 2,
        "enhanced_semantic_description": 
"Nutrient concentration at which uptake 
efficiency response is centered, 
representing a physiological threshold",
        "citations": [
            "https://doi.org/10.4319/lo.2
009.54.4.1025"
        ],
        "processed": true
    }
=======
        "parameter": "N_crit",
        "value": 0.15,
        "description": "Critical nutrient
concentration for efficiency switch (g C 
m^-3)",
        "source": "literature",
        "import_type": "PARAMETER",
        "priority": 2,
        "enhanced_semantic_description": 
"Nutrient concentration at which uptake 
efficiency response is centered, 
representing a physiological threshold",
        "citations": [
            "https://doi.org/10.4319/lo.2
009.54.4.1025"
        ],
        "processed": true
    },
    {
        "parameter": "Q_max",
        "value": 0.4,
        "description": "Maximum internal 
nutrient quota (g N/g C)",
        "source": "literature",
        "import_type": "PARAMETER",
        "priority": 2,
        "enhanced_semantic_description": 
"Maximum ratio of stored nutrients to 
carbon biomass in phytoplankton cells",
        "citations": [
            "https://doi.org/10.4319/lo.1
968.13.1.0156",
            "https://doi.org/10.3354/meps
07655"
        ],
        "processed": true
    },
    {
        "parameter": "Q_min",
        "value": 0.05,
        "description": "Minimum internal 
nutrient quota (g N/g C)",
        "source": "literature", 
        "import_type": "PARAMETER",
        "priority": 2,
        "enhanced_semantic_description": 
"Minimum nutrient to carbon ratio 
required for phytoplankton survival",
        "citations": [
            "https://doi.org/10.4319/lo.1
968.13.1.0156"
        ],
        "processed": true
    }
>>>>>>> REPLACE

The SEARCH section must exactly match an 
existing block of lines including all 
white space, comments, indentation, 
docstrings, etc

# The other 3 SEARCH/REPLACE blocks were 
applied successfully.
Don't re-send them.
Just reply with fixed versions of the 
block above that failed to match.

Let me fix the parameters.json           
SEARCH/REPLACE block by exactly matching 
the existing content:                    

POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LX
V1UI50\parameters.json                   

                                         
 <<<<<<< SEARCH                          
         {                               
             "parameter": "N_crit",      
             "value": 0.15,              
             "description": "Critical    
 nutrient concentration for efficiency   
 switch (g C m^-3)",                     
             "source": "literature",     
             "import_type": "PARAMETER", 
             "priority": 2,              
             "enhanced_semantic_descript 
 n": "Nutrient concentration at which    
 uptake efficiency response is centered, 
 representing a physiological threshold" 
             "citations": [              
                 "https://doi.org/10.431 
 lo.2009.54.4.1025"                      
             ],                          
             "processed": true           
         }                               
 =======                                 
         {                               
             "parameter": "N_crit",      
             "value": 0.15,              
             "description": "Critical    
 nutrient concentration for efficiency   
 switch (g C m^-3)",                     
             "source": "literature",     
             "import_type": "PARAMETER", 
             "priority": 2,              
             "enhanced_semantic_descript 
 n": "Nutrient concentration at which    
 uptake efficiency response is centered, 
 representing a physiological threshold" 
             "citations": [              
                 "https://doi.org/10.431 
 lo.2009.54.4.1025"                      
             ],                          
             "processed": true           
         },                              
         {                               
             "parameter": "Q_max",       
             "value": 0.4,               
             "description": "Maximum     
 internal nutrient quota (g N/g C)",     
             "source": "literature",     
             "import_type": "PARAMETER", 
             "priority": 2,              
             "enhanced_semantic_descript 
 n": "Maximum ratio of stored nutrients  
 carbon biomass in phytoplankton cells", 
             "citations": [              
                 "https://doi.org/10.431 
 lo.1968.13.1.0156",                     
                 "https://doi.org/10.335 
 meps07655"                              
             ],                          
             "processed": true           
         },                              
         {                               
             "parameter": "Q_min",       
             "value": 0.05,              
             "description": "Minimum     
 internal nutrient quota (g N/g C)",     
             "source": "literature",     
             "import_type": "PARAMETER", 
             "priority": 2,              
             "enhanced_semantic_descript 
 n": "Minimum nutrient to carbon ratio   
 required for phytoplankton survival",   
             "citations": [              
                 "https://doi.org/10.431 
 lo.1968.13.1.0156"                      
             ],                          
             "processed": true           
         }                               
 >>>>>>> REPLACE                         
                                         

Tokens: 14k sent, 564 received. Cost: 
$0.05 message, $0.11 session.
Committing 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LX
V1UI50\parameters.json before applying 
edits.
Unable to add C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\parameters.json: Cmd('git') 
failed due to: exit code(1)
  cmdline: git add 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\parameters.json
  stderr: 'The following paths are 
ignored by one of your .gitignore files:
POPULATIONS
hint: Use -f if you really want to add 
them.
hint: Turn this message off by running
hint: "git config advice.addIgnoredFile 
false"'
Unable to commit: Cmd('git') failed due 
to: exit code(1)
  cmdline: git commit -m feat: Add 
parameters configuration for new 
population individual --no-verify -- 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\parameters.json
  stderr: 'error: pathspec 
'C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\parameters.json' did not 
match any file(s) known to git'
The LLM did not conform to the edit 
format.
https://aider.chat/docs/troubleshooting/e
dit-errors.html

# 1 SEARCH/REPLACE block failed to match!

## SearchReplaceNoExactMatch: This SEARCH
block failed to exactly match lines in 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LX
V1UI50\parameters.json
<<<<<<< SEARCH
        {
            "parameter": "N_crit",
            "value": 0.15,
            "description": "Critical 
nutrient concentration for efficiency 
switch (g C m^-3)",
            "source": "literature",
            "import_type": "PARAMETER",
            "priority": 2,
            "enhanced_semantic_descriptio
n": "Nutrient concentration at which 
uptake efficiency response is centered, 
representing a physiological threshold",
            "citations": [
                "https://doi.org/10.4319/
lo.2009.54.4.1025"
            ],
            "processed": true
        }
=======
        {
            "parameter": "N_crit",
            "value": 0.15,
            "description": "Critical 
nutrient concentration for efficiency 
switch (g C m^-3)",
            "source": "literature",
            "import_type": "PARAMETER",
            "priority": 2,
            "enhanced_semantic_descriptio
n": "Nutrient concentration at which 
uptake efficiency response is centered, 
representing a physiological threshold",
            "citations": [
                "https://doi.org/10.4319/
lo.2009.54.4.1025"
            ],
            "processed": true
        },
        {
            "parameter": "Q_max",
            "value": 0.4,
            "description": "Maximum 
internal nutrient quota (g N/g C)",
            "source": "literature",
            "import_type": "PARAMETER",
            "priority": 2,
            "enhanced_semantic_descriptio
n": "Maximum ratio of stored nutrients to
carbon biomass in phytoplankton cells",
            "citations": [
                "https://doi.org/10.4319/
lo.1968.13.1.0156",
                "https://doi.org/10.3354/
meps07655"
            ],
            "processed": true
        },
        {
            "parameter": "Q_min",
            "value": 0.05,
            "description": "Minimum 
internal nutrient quota (g N/g C)",
            "source": "literature", 
            "import_type": "PARAMETER",
            "priority": 2,
            "enhanced_semantic_descriptio
n": "Minimum nutrient to carbon ratio 
required for phytoplankton survival",
            "citations": [
                "https://doi.org/10.4319/
lo.1968.13.1.0156"
            ],
            "processed": true
        }
>>>>>>> REPLACE

Did you mean to match some of these 
actual lines from 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LX
V1UI50\parameters.json?

```
            "enhanced_semantic_descriptio
n": "Controls how sharply nutrient uptake
efficiency changes around the critical 
nutrient concentration",
            "citations": [
                "https://doi.org/10.1016/
j.pocean.2015.04.014"
            ],
            "processed": true
        },
        {
            "parameter": "N_crit",
            "value": 0.15,
            "description": "Critical 
nutrient concentration for efficiency 
switch (g C m^-3)",
            "source": "literature",
            "import_type": "PARAMETER",
            "priority": 2,
            "enhanced_semantic_descriptio
n": "Nutrient concentration at which 
uptake efficiency response is centered, 
representing a physiological threshold",
            "citations": [
                "https://doi.org/10.4319/
lo.2009.54.4.1025"
            ],
            "processed": true
        },
        {
            "parameter": "theta_P",
            "value": 0.5,
            "description": "Temperature 
sensitivity of grazing selectivity 
(dimensionless)",
```

The SEARCH section must exactly match an 
existing block of lines including all 
white space, comments, indentation, 
docstrings, etc

Let me fix the parameters.json           
SEARCH/REPLACE block by exactly matching 
the existing content:                    

POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LX
V1UI50\parameters.json                   

                                         
 <<<<<<< SEARCH                          
             "enhanced_semantic_descript 
 n": "Controls how sharply nutrient upta 
 efficiency changes around the critical  
 nutrient concentration",                
             "citations": [              
                 "https://doi.org/10.101 
 j.pocean.2015.04.014"                   
             ],                          
             "processed": true           
         },                              
         {                               
             "parameter": "N_crit",      
             "value": 0.15,              
             "description": "Critical    
 nutrient concentration for efficiency   
 switch (g C m^-3)",                     
             "source": "literature",     
             "import_type": "PARAMETER", 
             "priority": 2,              
             "enhanced_semantic_descript 
 n": "Nutrient concentration at which    
 uptake efficiency response is centered, 
 representing a physiological threshold" 
             "citations": [              
                 "https://doi.org/10.431 
 lo.2009.54.4.1025"                      
             ],                          
             "processed": true           
         },                              
         {                               
             "parameter": "theta_P",     
 =======                                 
             "enhanced_semantic_descript 
 n": "Controls how sharply nutrient upta 
 efficiency changes around the critical  
 nutrient concentration",                
             "citations": [              
                 "https://doi.org/10.101 
 j.pocean.2015.04.014"                   
             ],                          
             "processed": true           
         },                              
         {                               
             "parameter": "N_crit",      
             "value": 0.15,              
             "description": "Critical    
 nutrient concentration for efficiency   
 switch (g C m^-3)",                     
             "source": "literature",     
             "import_type": "PARAMETER", 
             "priority": 2,              
             "enhanced_semantic_descript 
 n": "Nutrient concentration at which    
 uptake efficiency response is centered, 
 representing a physiological threshold" 
             "citations": [              
                 "https://doi.org/10.431 
 lo.2009.54.4.1025"                      
             ],                          
             "processed": true           
         },                              
         {                               
             "parameter": "Q_max",       
             "value": 0.4,               
             "description": "Maximum     
 internal nutrient quota (g N/g C)",     
             "source": "literature",     
             "import_type": "PARAMETER", 
             "priority": 2,              
             "enhanced_semantic_descript 
 n": "Maximum ratio of stored nutrients  
 carbon biomass in phytoplankton cells", 
             "citations": [              
                 "https://doi.org/10.431 
 lo.1968.13.1.0156",                     
                 "https://doi.org/10.335 
 meps07655"                              
             ],                          
             "processed": true           
         },                              
         {                               
             "parameter": "Q_min",       
             "value": 0.05,              
             "description": "Minimum     
 internal nutrient quota (g N/g C)",     
             "source": "literature",     
             "import_type": "PARAMETER", 
             "priority": 2,              
             "enhanced_semantic_descript 
 n": "Minimum nutrient to carbon ratio   
 required for phytoplankton survival",   
             "citations": [              
                 "https://doi.org/10.431 
 lo.1968.13.1.0156"                      
             ],                          
             "processed": true           
         },                              
         {                               
             "parameter": "theta_P",     
 >>>>>>> REPLACE                         
                                         

Tokens: 16k sent, 704 received. Cost: 
$0.06 message, $0.17 session.
Committing 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LX
V1UI50\parameters.json before applying 
edits.
Unable to add C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\parameters.json: Cmd('git') 
failed due to: exit code(1)
  cmdline: git add 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\parameters.json
  stderr: 'The following paths are 
ignored by one of your .gitignore files:
POPULATIONS
hint: Use -f if you really want to add 
them.
hint: Turn this message off by running
hint: "git config advice.addIgnoredFile 
false"'
Unable to commit: Cmd('git') failed due 
to: exit code(1)
  cmdline: git commit -m feat: Add 
parameters configuration for new 
population individual --no-verify -- 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\parameters.json
  stderr: 'error: pathspec 
'C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\parameters.json' did not 
match any file(s) known to git'
Applied edit to 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LX
V1UI50\parameters.json
Improved existing model in individual: POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50
Validating model for data leakage...
Opening file: POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50\model.cpp
File read successfully
Extracting vectors...
Found data vectors: {'Z_dat', 'Time', 'N_dat', 'P_dat'}
Found prediction vectors: {'P_pred', 'Z_pred', 'N_pred', 'Temp', 'D_pred'}
Found reported vectors: {'Z_pred', 'P_pred', 'N_pred', 'D_pred'}
Finding initial conditions...
Found 4 initial conditions
Finding time-stepping loop...
Found loop from line 75 to 162
Found response variables: {'Z_dat', 'N_dat', 'P_dat'}
[93mRunning model for individual...[0m
[0mIndividual directory: POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50[0m
[93mR script stdout:[0m
[0mg++ -std=gnu++17  -I"C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/include" -DNDEBUG -I"C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-44~1.1/library/TMB/include" -I"C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-44~1.1/library/RCPPEI~1/include"   -DTMB_EIGEN_DISABLE_WARNINGS   -DTMB_LIB_INIT=R_init_model  -DCPPAD_FRAMEWORK    -I"C:/rtools44/x86_64-w64-mingw32.static.posix/include"     -O2 -Wa,-mbig-obj -c POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.cpp -o POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.o[0m
[93mR script stderr:[0m
[0mLoading required package: TMB
Loading required package: jsonlite
here() starts at C:/Users/spi085/OneDrive - CSIRO/Documents/_Projects/SCCP-QuantModelling
using C++ compiler: 'G__~1.EXE (GCC) 13.2.0'
POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.cpp: In member function 'Type objective_function<Type>::operator()()':
POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.cpp:118:33: error: 'Q_max' was not declared in this scope; did you mean 'g_max'?
  118 |       Type uptake_regulation = (Q_max - Q)/(Q_max - Q_min);  // Approaches 0 as Q->Q_max
      |                                 ^~~~~
      |                                 g_max
POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.cpp:118:53: error: 'Q_min' was not declared in this scope; did you mean 'min'?
  118 |       Type uptake_regulation = (Q_max - Q)/(Q_max - Q_min);  // Approaches 0 as Q->Q_max
      |                                                     ^~~~~
      |                                                     min
make: *** [C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/etc/x64/Makeconf:296: POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.o] Error 1
Error in TMB::compile(file.path(individual_dir, model_file), flags = flags,  : 
  Compilation failed
Error: Compilation failed
Execution halted[0m
[91mModel failed to compile.[0m
MODEL RUN FINISHED
Error: Objective value is None
Initial run failed. Attempting to fix...
Fixing broken model iteration: 0
The error occurs because we need to      
declare Q_max and Q_min as parameters.   
Let me fix that:                         

POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LX
V1UI50\model.cpp                         

                                         
 <<<<<<< SEARCH                          
   PARAMETER(k_eta);       // Steepness  
 uptake efficiency response              
   PARAMETER(N_crit);      // Critical   
 nutrient concentration for efficiency   
 switch                                  
                                         
 =======                                 
   PARAMETER(k_eta);       // Steepness  
 uptake efficiency response              
   PARAMETER(N_crit);      // Critical   
 nutrient concentration for efficiency   
 switch                                  
   PARAMETER(Q_max);       // Maximum    
 internal nutrient quota                 
   PARAMETER(Q_min);       // Minimum    
 internal nutrient quota                 
                                         
 >>>>>>> REPLACE                         
                                         

This adds the parameter declarations for 
Q_max and Q_min that were missing from   
the model parameters section. The rest of
the code can then use these parameters as
intended.                                

Tokens: 17k sent, 177 received. Cost: 
$0.05 message, $0.22 session.
Committing 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LX
V1UI50\model.cpp before applying edits.
Unable to add C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\model.cpp: Cmd('git') failed 
due to: exit code(1)
  cmdline: git add 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\model.cpp
  stderr: 'The following paths are 
ignored by one of your .gitignore files:
POPULATIONS
hint: Use -f if you really want to add 
them.
hint: Turn this message off by running
hint: "git config advice.addIgnoredFile 
false"'
Unable to commit: Cmd('git') failed due 
to: exit code(1)
  cmdline: git commit -m feat: Add model 
implementation for POPULATION_0027 
individual INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50 
--no-verify -- C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive -
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\model.cpp
  stderr: 'error: pathspec 
'C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\model.cpp' did not match any 
file(s) known to git'
Applied edit to 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LX
V1UI50\model.cpp
Validating fixed model for data leakage...
Opening file: POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50\model.cpp
File read successfully
Extracting vectors...
Found data vectors: {'Z_dat', 'Time', 'N_dat', 'P_dat'}
Found prediction vectors: {'P_pred', 'Z_pred', 'N_pred', 'Temp', 'D_pred'}
Found reported vectors: {'Z_pred', 'P_pred', 'N_pred', 'D_pred'}
Finding initial conditions...
Found 4 initial conditions
Finding time-stepping loop...
Found loop from line 77 to 164
Found response variables: {'Z_dat', 'N_dat', 'P_dat'}
[93mRunning model for individual...[0m
[0mIndividual directory: POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50[0m
[93mR script stdout:[0m
[0mg++ -std=gnu++17  -I"C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/include" -DNDEBUG -I"C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-44~1.1/library/TMB/include" -I"C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-44~1.1/library/RCPPEI~1/include"   -DTMB_EIGEN_DISABLE_WARNINGS   -DTMB_LIB_INIT=R_init_model  -DCPPAD_FRAMEWORK    -I"C:/rtools44/x86_64-w64-mingw32.static.posix/include"     -O2 -Wa,-mbig-obj -c POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.cpp -o POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.o
g++ -std=gnu++17 -shared -s -static-libgcc -o POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.dll tmp.def POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.o -LC:/rtools44/x86_64-w64-mingw32.static.posix/lib/x64 -LC:/rtools44/x86_64-w64-mingw32.static.posix/lib -LC:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/bin/x64 -lR
Starting model phases
Number of phases: 4 
Phase 1 
Initial parameter values for phase 1 :
r_max g_max 
  1.0   0.4 
Error in model phases: NA/NaN gradient evaluation[0m
[93mR script stderr:[0m
[0mLoading required package: TMB
Loading required package: jsonlite
here() starts at C:/Users/spi085/OneDrive - CSIRO/Documents/_Projects/SCCP-QuantModelling
using C++ compiler: 'G__~1.EXE (GCC) 13.2.0'
Error in value[[3L]](cond) : 
  Error in model phases: NA/NaN gradient evaluation
Calls: tryCatch -> tryCatchList -> tryCatchOne -> <Anonymous>
In addition: Warning message:
In nlminb(model$par, model$fn, model$gr) : NA/NaN function evaluation
Execution halted[0m
[91mR script failed with return code 1[0m
Fixing broken model iteration: 1
The NA/NaN gradient evaluation error     
suggests numerical instability. Let's fix
the quota calculations and add bounds to 
prevent division by zero:                

POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LX
V1UI50\model.cpp                         

                                         
 <<<<<<< SEARCH                          
       // Track internal nutrient quota  
       Type Q = N/P;  // Current quota   
                                         
       // Nutrient uptake depends on     
 external concentration and current quot 
       Type uptake_regulation = (Q_max - 
 Q)/(Q_max - Q_min);  // Approaches 0 as 
 Q->Q_max                                
       Type uptake = r_max * temp_scale  
 uptake_regulation * N * P / (K_N + N +  
 eps);                                   
                                         
       // Growth depends on internal quo 
 (Droop equation)                        
       Type growth_rate = r_max *        
 temp_scale * photo_eff * light_limitati 
 * (1.0 - Q_min/Q);                      
       Type growth = growth_rate * P;    
 =======                                 
       // Track internal nutrient quota  
 with bounds                             
       Type Q = (N + eps)/(P + eps);  // 
 Current quota                           
       Q = Q < Q_min ? Q_min : Q;     // 
 Lower bound                             
       Q = Q > Q_max ? Q_max : Q;     // 
 Upper bound                             
                                         
       // Nutrient uptake depends on     
 external concentration and current quot 
       Type uptake_regulation = (Q_max - 
 Q)/(Q_max - Q_min + eps);  // Approache 
 0 as Q->Q_max                           
       uptake_regulation =               
 uptake_regulation < 0 ? 0 :             
 uptake_regulation;  // Ensure           
 non-negative                            
       Type uptake = r_max * temp_scale  
 uptake_regulation * N * P / (K_N + N +  
 eps);                                   
                                         
       // Growth depends on internal quo 
 (Droop equation) with bounds            
       Type quota_limitation = (Q -      
 Q_min)/(Q + eps);  // Modified Droop    
 equation                                
       quota_limitation = quota_limitati 
 < 0 ? 0 : quota_limitation;             
       quota_limitation = quota_limitati 
 > 1 ? 1 : quota_limitation;             
       Type growth_rate = r_max *        
 temp_scale * photo_eff * light_limitati 
 * quota_limitation;                     
       Type growth = growth_rate * P;    
 >>>>>>> REPLACE                         
                                         

                                         
 <<<<<<< SEARCH                          
       // Enhanced mortality and sinking 
 under nutrient stress                   
       Type nutrient_stress = m_P_N *    
 Q_min / (Q + eps);  // Now based on     
 internal quota                          
       Type sinking = (s_P + s_P_max *   
 Q_min / (Q + eps)) * P;                 
 =======                                 
       // Enhanced mortality and sinking 
 under nutrient stress with bounds       
       Type quota_stress = (Q_max -      
 Q)/(Q_max - Q_min + eps);  // Normalize 
 quota stress                            
       quota_stress = quota_stress < 0 ? 
 : quota_stress;                         
       quota_stress = quota_stress > 1 ? 
 : quota_stress;                         
       Type nutrient_stress = m_P_N *    
 quota_stress;                           
       Type sinking = (s_P + s_P_max *   
 quota_stress) * P;                      
 >>>>>>> REPLACE                         
                                         

These changes:                           

 1 Add bounds to Q to prevent extreme    
   values                                
 2 Modify the Droop equation to be more  
   numerically stable                    
 3 Add eps terms to prevent division by  
   zero                                  
 4 Normalize and bound the quota stress  
   terms                                 
 5 Simplify the nutrient stress          
   calculations                          

Tokens: 18k sent, 707 received. Cost: 
$0.07 message, $0.29 session.
Committing 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LX
V1UI50\model.cpp before applying edits.
Unable to add C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\model.cpp: Cmd('git') failed 
due to: exit code(1)
  cmdline: git add 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\model.cpp
  stderr: 'The following paths are 
ignored by one of your .gitignore files:
POPULATIONS
hint: Use -f if you really want to add 
them.
hint: Turn this message off by running
hint: "git config advice.addIgnoredFile 
false"'
Unable to commit: Cmd('git') failed due 
to: exit code(1)
  cmdline: git commit -m feat: Add model 
implementation for POPULATION_0027 
individual INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50 
--no-verify -- C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive -
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\model.cpp
  stderr: 'error: pathspec 
'C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\model.cpp' did not match any 
file(s) known to git'
Applied edit to 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LX
V1UI50\model.cpp
Validating fixed model for data leakage...
Opening file: POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50\model.cpp
File read successfully
Extracting vectors...
Found data vectors: {'Z_dat', 'Time', 'N_dat', 'P_dat'}
Found prediction vectors: {'P_pred', 'Z_pred', 'N_pred', 'Temp', 'D_pred'}
Found reported vectors: {'Z_pred', 'P_pred', 'N_pred', 'D_pred'}
Finding initial conditions...
Found 4 initial conditions
Finding time-stepping loop...
Found loop from line 77 to 173
Found response variables: {'Z_dat', 'N_dat', 'P_dat'}
[93mRunning model for individual...[0m
[0mIndividual directory: POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50[0m
[93mRemoved old compilation: model.dll[0m
[93mRemoved old compilation: model.o[0m
[93mR script stdout:[0m
[0mg++ -std=gnu++17  -I"C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/include" -DNDEBUG -I"C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-44~1.1/library/TMB/include" -I"C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-44~1.1/library/RCPPEI~1/include"   -DTMB_EIGEN_DISABLE_WARNINGS   -DTMB_LIB_INIT=R_init_model  -DCPPAD_FRAMEWORK    -I"C:/rtools44/x86_64-w64-mingw32.static.posix/include"     -O2 -Wa,-mbig-obj -c POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.cpp -o POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.o
g++ -std=gnu++17 -shared -s -static-libgcc -o POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.dll tmp.def POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.o -LC:/rtools44/x86_64-w64-mingw32.static.posix/lib/x64 -LC:/rtools44/x86_64-w64-mingw32.static.posix/lib -LC:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/bin/x64 -lR
Starting model phases
Number of phases: 4 
Phase 1 
Initial parameter values for phase 1 :
r_max g_max 
  1.0   0.4 
Error in model phases: NA/NaN gradient evaluation[0m
[93mR script stderr:[0m
[0mLoading required package: TMB
Loading required package: jsonlite
here() starts at C:/Users/spi085/OneDrive - CSIRO/Documents/_Projects/SCCP-QuantModelling
using C++ compiler: 'G__~1.EXE (GCC) 13.2.0'
Error in value[[3L]](cond) : 
  Error in model phases: NA/NaN gradient evaluation
Calls: tryCatch -> tryCatchList -> tryCatchOne -> <Anonymous>
In addition: Warning message:
In nlminb(model$par, model$fn, model$gr) : NA/NaN function evaluation
Execution halted[0m
[91mR script failed with return code 1[0m
Fixing broken model iteration: 2
Let me fix the numerical instabilities in
model.cpp. The main issues are in the    
quota calculations and growth equations: 

POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LX
V1UI50\model.cpp                         

                                         
 <<<<<<< SEARCH                          
       // Track internal nutrient quota  
 with bounds                             
       Type Q = (N + eps)/(P + eps);  // 
 Current quota                           
       Q = Q < Q_min ? Q_min : Q;     // 
 Lower bound                             
       Q = Q > Q_max ? Q_max : Q;     // 
 Upper bound                             
                                         
       // Nutrient uptake depends on     
 external concentration and current quot 
       Type uptake_regulation = (Q_max - 
 Q)/(Q_max - Q_min + eps);  // Approache 
 0 as Q->Q_max                           
       uptake_regulation =               
 uptake_regulation < 0 ? 0 :             
 uptake_regulation;  // Ensure           
 non-negative                            
       Type uptake = r_max * temp_scale  
 uptake_regulation * N * P / (K_N + N +  
 eps);                                   
                                         
       // Growth depends on internal quo 
 (Droop equation) with bounds            
       Type quota_limitation = (Q -      
 Q_min)/(Q + eps);  // Modified Droop    
 equation                                
       quota_limitation = quota_limitati 
 < 0 ? 0 : quota_limitation;             
       quota_limitation = quota_limitati 
 > 1 ? 1 : quota_limitation;             
       Type growth_rate = r_max *        
 temp_scale * photo_eff * light_limitati 
 * quota_limitation;                     
       Type growth = growth_rate * P;    
 =======                                 
       // Track internal nutrient quota  
 with bounds                             
       Type Q = N/(P + eps);  // Current 
 quota                                   
       Q = max(Q_min + eps, min(Q_max -  
 eps, Q));  // Bound Q away from extreme 
                                         
       // Nutrient uptake with quota     
 feedback                                
       Type quota_factor = (Q_max -      
 Q)/(Q_max - Q_min);  // Relative quota  
 status                                  
       Type uptake = r_max * temp_scale  
 quota_factor * N * P / (K_N + N);       
                                         
       // Growth using standard Droop    
 equation                                
       Type mu = r_max * temp_scale *    
 photo_eff * light_limitation * (Type(1. 
 - Q_min/Q);                             
       Type growth = mu * P;             
 >>>>>>> REPLACE                         
                                         

                                         
 <<<<<<< SEARCH                          
       // Enhanced mortality and sinking 
 under nutrient stress with bounds       
       Type quota_stress = (Q_max -      
 Q)/(Q_max - Q_min + eps);  // Normalize 
 quota stress                            
       quota_stress = quota_stress < 0 ? 
 : quota_stress;                         
       quota_stress = quota_stress > 1 ? 
 : quota_stress;                         
       Type nutrient_stress = m_P_N *    
 quota_stress;                           
       Type sinking = (s_P + s_P_max *   
 quota_stress) * P;                      
 =======                                 
       // Nutrient stress effects based  
 quota status                            
       Type quota_stress = max(Type(0.0) 
 min(Type(1.0), (Q_max - Q)/(Q_max -     
 Q_min)));                               
       Type nutrient_stress = m_P_N *    
 quota_stress;                           
       Type sinking = (s_P + s_P_max *   
 quota_stress) * P;                      
 >>>>>>> REPLACE                         
                                         

These changes:                           

 1 Simplify quota calculations and bound 
   them more carefully                   
 2 Use the standard Droop equation form  
   for growth                            
 3 Clean up the stress calculations      
 4 Remove redundant eps terms that could 
   cause instability                     
 5 Use max/min functions for cleaner     
   bounds                                

Tokens: 20k sent, 732 received. Cost: 
$0.07 message, $0.36 session.
Committing 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LX
V1UI50\model.cpp before applying edits.
Unable to add C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\model.cpp: Cmd('git') failed 
due to: exit code(1)
  cmdline: git add 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\model.cpp
  stderr: 'The following paths are 
ignored by one of your .gitignore files:
POPULATIONS
hint: Use -f if you really want to add 
them.
hint: Turn this message off by running
hint: "git config advice.addIgnoredFile 
false"'
Unable to commit: Cmd('git') failed due 
to: exit code(1)
  cmdline: git commit -m feat: Add model 
implementation for POPULATION_0027 
individual INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50 
--no-verify -- C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive -
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\model.cpp
  stderr: 'error: pathspec 
'C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\model.cpp' did not match any 
file(s) known to git'
Applied edit to 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LX
V1UI50\model.cpp
Validating fixed model for data leakage...
Opening file: POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50\model.cpp
File read successfully
Extracting vectors...
Found data vectors: {'Z_dat', 'Time', 'N_dat', 'P_dat'}
Found prediction vectors: {'P_pred', 'Z_pred', 'N_pred', 'Temp', 'D_pred'}
Found reported vectors: {'Z_pred', 'P_pred', 'N_pred', 'D_pred'}
Finding initial conditions...
Found 4 initial conditions
Finding time-stepping loop...
Found loop from line 77 to 166
Found response variables: {'Z_dat', 'N_dat', 'P_dat'}
[93mRunning model for individual...[0m
[0mIndividual directory: POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50[0m
[93mRemoved old compilation: model.dll[0m
[93mRemoved old compilation: model.o[0m
[93mR script stdout:[0m
[0mg++ -std=gnu++17  -I"C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/include" -DNDEBUG -I"C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-44~1.1/library/TMB/include" -I"C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-44~1.1/library/RCPPEI~1/include"   -DTMB_EIGEN_DISABLE_WARNINGS   -DTMB_LIB_INIT=R_init_model  -DCPPAD_FRAMEWORK    -I"C:/rtools44/x86_64-w64-mingw32.static.posix/include"     -O2 -Wa,-mbig-obj -c POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.cpp -o POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.o[0m
[93mR script stderr:[0m
[0mLoading required package: TMB
Loading required package: jsonlite
here() starts at C:/Users/spi085/OneDrive - CSIRO/Documents/_Projects/SCCP-QuantModelling
using C++ compiler: 'G__~1.EXE (GCC) 13.2.0'
POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.cpp: In instantiation of 'Type objective_function<Type>::operator()() [with Type = CppAD::AD<double>]':
C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/library/TMB/include/tmb_core.hpp:1308:6:   required from here
POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.cpp:118:31: error: no matching function for call to 'min(CppAD::AD<double>, CppAD::AD<double>&)'
  118 |       Q = max(Q_min + eps, min(Q_max - eps, Q));  // Bound Q away from extremes
      |                            ~~~^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
In file included from C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/library/TMB/include/TMB.hpp:215,
                 from POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.cpp:1:
C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/library/TMB/include/convenience.hpp:156:6: note: candidate: 'template<class Type> Type min(const tmbutils::vector<Type>&)'
  156 | Type min(const vector<Type> &x)
      |      ^~~
C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/library/TMB/include/convenience.hpp:156:6: note:   template argument deduction/substitution failed:
POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.cpp:118:31: note:   'CppAD::AD<double>' is not derived from 'const tmbutils::vector<Type>'
  118 |       Q = max(Q_min + eps, min(Q_max - eps, Q));  // Bound Q away from extremes
      |                            ~~~^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.cpp:137:45: error: no matching function for call to 'min(CppAD::AD<double>, CppAD::AD<double>)'
  137 |       Type quota_stress = max(Type(0.0), min(Type(1.0), (Q_max - Q)/(Q_max - Q_min)));
      |                                          ~~~^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/library/TMB/include/convenience.hpp:156:6: note: candidate: 'template<class Type> Type min(const tmbutils::vector<Type>&)'
  156 | Type min(const vector<Type> &x)
      |      ^~~
C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/library/TMB/include/convenience.hpp:156:6: note:   template argument deduction/substitution failed:
POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.cpp:137:45: note:   'CppAD::AD<double>' is not derived from 'const tmbutils::vector<Type>'
  137 |       Type quota_stress = max(Type(0.0), min(Type(1.0), (Q_max - Q)/(Q_max - Q_min)));
      |                                          ~~~^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.cpp: In instantiation of 'Type objective_function<Type>::operator()() [with Type = double]':
C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/library/TMB/include/tmb_core.hpp:2031:7:   required from here
POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.cpp:118:31: error: no matching function for call to 'min(double, double&)'
  118 |       Q = max(Q_min + eps, min(Q_max - eps, Q));  // Bound Q away from extremes
      |                            ~~~^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/library/TMB/include/convenience.hpp:156:6: note: candidate: 'template<class Type> Type min(const tmbutils::vector<Type>&)'
  156 | Type min(const vector<Type> &x)
      |      ^~~
C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/library/TMB/include/convenience.hpp:156:6: note:   template argument deduction/substitution failed:
POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.cpp:118:31: note:   mismatched types 'const tmbutils::vector<Type>' and 'double'
  118 |       Q = max(Q_min + eps, min(Q_max - eps, Q));  // Bound Q away from extremes
      |                            ~~~^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.cpp:137:45: error: no matching function for call to 'min(double, double)'
  137 |       Type quota_stress = max(Type(0.0), min(Type(1.0), (Q_max - Q)/(Q_max - Q_min)));
      |                                          ~~~^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/library/TMB/include/convenience.hpp:156:6: note: candidate: 'template<class Type> Type min(const tmbutils::vector<Type>&)'
  156 | Type min(const vector<Type> &x)
      |      ^~~
C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/library/TMB/include/convenience.hpp:156:6: note:   template argument deduction/substitution failed:
POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.cpp:137:45: note:   mismatched types 'const tmbutils::vector<Type>' and 'double'
  137 |       Type quota_stress = max(Type(0.0), min(Type(1.0), (Q_max - Q)/(Q_max - Q_min)));
      |                                          ~~~^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.cpp: In instantiation of 'Type objective_function<Type>::operator()() [with Type = CppAD::AD<CppAD::AD<double> >]':
C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/library/TMB/include/tmb_core.hpp:913:29:   required from 'Type objective_function<Type>::evalUserTemplate() [with Type = CppAD::AD<CppAD::AD<double> >]'
C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/library/TMB/include/tmb_core.hpp:2112:26:   required from here
POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.cpp:118:31: error: no matching function for call to 'min(CppAD::AD<CppAD::AD<double> >, CppAD::AD<CppAD::AD<double> >&)'
  118 |       Q = max(Q_min + eps, min(Q_max - eps, Q));  // Bound Q away from extremes
      |                            ~~~^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/library/TMB/include/convenience.hpp:156:6: note: candidate: 'template<class Type> Type min(const tmbutils::vector<Type>&)'
  156 | Type min(const vector<Type> &x)
      |      ^~~
C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/library/TMB/include/convenience.hpp:156:6: note:   template argument deduction/substitution failed:
POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.cpp:118:31: note:   'CppAD::AD<CppAD::AD<double> >' is not derived from 'const tmbutils::vector<Type>'
  118 |       Q = max(Q_min + eps, min(Q_max - eps, Q));  // Bound Q away from extremes
      |                            ~~~^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.cpp:137:45: error: no matching function for call to 'min(CppAD::AD<CppAD::AD<double> >, CppAD::AD<CppAD::AD<double> >)'
  137 |       Type quota_stress = max(Type(0.0), min(Type(1.0), (Q_max - Q)/(Q_max - Q_min)));
      |                                          ~~~^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/library/TMB/include/convenience.hpp:156:6: note: candidate: 'template<class Type> Type min(const tmbutils::vector<Type>&)'
  156 | Type min(const vector<Type> &x)
      |      ^~~
C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/library/TMB/include/convenience.hpp:156:6: note:   template argument deduction/substitution failed:
POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.cpp:137:45: note:   'CppAD::AD<CppAD::AD<double> >' is not derived from 'const tmbutils::vector<Type>'
  137 |       Type quota_stress = max(Type(0.0), min(Type(1.0), (Q_max - Q)/(Q_max - Q_min)));
      |                                          ~~~^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.cpp: In instantiation of 'Type objective_function<Type>::operator()() [with Type = CppAD::AD<CppAD::AD<CppAD::AD<double> > >]':
C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/library/TMB/include/tmb_core.hpp:913:29:   required from 'Type objective_function<Type>::evalUserTemplate() [with Type = CppAD::AD<CppAD::AD<CppAD::AD<double> > >]'
C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/library/TMB/include/tmb_core.hpp:2361:28:   required from here
POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.cpp:118:31: error: no matching function for call to 'min(CppAD::AD<CppAD::AD<CppAD::AD<double> > >, CppAD::AD<CppAD::AD<CppAD::AD<double> > >&)'
  118 |       Q = max(Q_min + eps, min(Q_max - eps, Q));  // Bound Q away from extremes
      |                            ~~~^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/library/TMB/include/convenience.hpp:156:6: note: candidate: 'template<class Type> Type min(const tmbutils::vector<Type>&)'
  156 | Type min(const vector<Type> &x)
      |      ^~~
C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/library/TMB/include/convenience.hpp:156:6: note:   template argument deduction/substitution failed:
POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.cpp:118:31: note:   'CppAD::AD<CppAD::AD<CppAD::AD<double> > >' is not derived from 'const tmbutils::vector<Type>'
  118 |       Q = max(Q_min + eps, min(Q_max - eps, Q));  // Bound Q away from extremes
      |                            ~~~^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.cpp:137:45: error: no matching function for call to 'min(CppAD::AD<CppAD::AD<CppAD::AD<double> > >, CppAD::AD<CppAD::AD<CppAD::AD<double> > >)'
  137 |       Type quota_stress = max(Type(0.0), min(Type(1.0), (Q_max - Q)/(Q_max - Q_min)));
      |                                          ~~~^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/library/TMB/include/convenience.hpp:156:6: note: candidate: 'template<class Type> Type min(const tmbutils::vector<Type>&)'
  156 | Type min(const vector<Type> &x)
      |      ^~~
C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/library/TMB/include/convenience.hpp:156:6: note:   template argument deduction/substitution failed:
POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.cpp:137:45: note:   'CppAD::AD<CppAD::AD<CppAD::AD<double> > >' is not derived from 'const tmbutils::vector<Type>'
  137 |       Type quota_stress = max(Type(0.0), min(Type(1.0), (Q_max - Q)/(Q_max - Q_min)));
      |                                          ~~~^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
make: *** [C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/etc/x64/Makeconf:296: POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.o] Error 1
Error in TMB::compile(file.path(individual_dir, model_file), flags = flags,  : 
  Compilation failed
Error: Compilation failed
Execution halted[0m
[91mModel failed to compile.[0m
Fixing broken model iteration: 3
The error is about using min/max         
functions that aren't available in TMB.  
Let me fix that by using conditional     
operators instead:                       

POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LX
V1UI50\model.cpp                         

                                         
 <<<<<<< SEARCH                          
       // Track internal nutrient quota  
 with bounds                             
       Type Q = N/(P + eps);  // Current 
 quota                                   
       Q = max(Q_min + eps, min(Q_max -  
 eps, Q));  // Bound Q away from extreme 
                                         
       // Nutrient uptake with quota     
 feedback                                
       Type quota_factor = (Q_max -      
 Q)/(Q_max - Q_min);  // Relative quota  
 status                                  
       Type uptake = r_max * temp_scale  
 quota_factor * N * P / (K_N + N);       
 =======                                 
       // Track internal nutrient quota  
 with bounds                             
       Type Q = N/(P + eps);  // Current 
 quota                                   
       Q = Q < (Q_min + eps) ? (Q_min +  
 eps) : (Q > (Q_max - eps) ? (Q_max - ep 
 : Q);                                   
                                         
       // Nutrient uptake with quota     
 feedback                                
       Type quota_factor = (Q_max -      
 Q)/(Q_max - Q_min);  // Relative quota  
 status                                  
       quota_factor = quota_factor < 0 ? 
 : (quota_factor > 1 ? 1 : quota_factor) 
       Type uptake = r_max * temp_scale  
 quota_factor * N * P / (K_N + N);       
 >>>>>>> REPLACE                         
                                         

                                         
 <<<<<<< SEARCH                          
       // Nutrient stress effects based  
 quota status                            
       Type quota_stress = max(Type(0.0) 
 min(Type(1.0), (Q_max - Q)/(Q_max -     
 Q_min)));                               
       Type nutrient_stress = m_P_N *    
 quota_stress;                           
       Type sinking = (s_P + s_P_max *   
 quota_stress) * P;                      
 =======                                 
       // Nutrient stress effects based  
 quota status                            
       Type quota_stress = (Q_max -      
 Q)/(Q_max - Q_min);                     
       quota_stress = quota_stress < 0 ? 
 : (quota_stress > 1 ? 1 : quota_stress) 
       Type nutrient_stress = m_P_N *    
 quota_stress;                           
       Type sinking = (s_P + s_P_max *   
 quota_stress) * P;                      
 >>>>>>> REPLACE                         
                                         

These changes replace the min/max        
functions with conditional (ternary)     
operators that do the same bounds        
checking. This should compile in TMB     
while maintaining the same ecological    
behavior.                                

Tokens: 24k sent, 525 received. Cost: 
$0.08 message, $0.44 session.
Committing 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LX
V1UI50\model.cpp before applying edits.
Unable to add C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\model.cpp: Cmd('git') failed 
due to: exit code(1)
  cmdline: git add 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\model.cpp
  stderr: 'The following paths are 
ignored by one of your .gitignore files:
POPULATIONS
hint: Use -f if you really want to add 
them.
hint: Turn this message off by running
hint: "git config advice.addIgnoredFile 
false"'
Unable to commit: Cmd('git') failed due 
to: exit code(1)
  cmdline: git commit -m feat: Add model 
implementation for POPULATION_0027 
individual INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50 
--no-verify -- C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive -
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\model.cpp
  stderr: 'error: pathspec 
'C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\model.cpp' did not match any 
file(s) known to git'
Applied edit to 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LX
V1UI50\model.cpp
Validating fixed model for data leakage...
Opening file: POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50\model.cpp
File read successfully
Extracting vectors...
Found data vectors: {'Z_dat', 'Time', 'N_dat', 'P_dat'}
Found prediction vectors: {'P_pred', 'Z_pred', 'N_pred', 'Temp', 'D_pred'}
Found reported vectors: {'Z_pred', 'P_pred', 'N_pred', 'D_pred'}
Finding initial conditions...
Found 4 initial conditions
Finding time-stepping loop...
Found loop from line 77 to 168
Found response variables: {'Z_dat', 'N_dat', 'P_dat'}
[93mRunning model for individual...[0m
[0mIndividual directory: POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50[0m
[93mR script stdout:[0m
[0mg++ -std=gnu++17  -I"C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/include" -DNDEBUG -I"C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-44~1.1/library/TMB/include" -I"C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-44~1.1/library/RCPPEI~1/include"   -DTMB_EIGEN_DISABLE_WARNINGS   -DTMB_LIB_INIT=R_init_model  -DCPPAD_FRAMEWORK    -I"C:/rtools44/x86_64-w64-mingw32.static.posix/include"     -O2 -Wa,-mbig-obj -c POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.cpp -o POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.o
g++ -std=gnu++17 -shared -s -static-libgcc -o POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.dll tmp.def POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.o -LC:/rtools44/x86_64-w64-mingw32.static.posix/lib/x64 -LC:/rtools44/x86_64-w64-mingw32.static.posix/lib -LC:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/bin/x64 -lR
Starting model phases
Number of phases: 4 
Phase 1 
Initial parameter values for phase 1 :
r_max g_max 
  1.0   0.4 
Error in model phases: NA/NaN gradient evaluation[0m
[93mR script stderr:[0m
[0mLoading required package: TMB
Loading required package: jsonlite
here() starts at C:/Users/spi085/OneDrive - CSIRO/Documents/_Projects/SCCP-QuantModelling
using C++ compiler: 'G__~1.EXE (GCC) 13.2.0'
Error in value[[3L]](cond) : 
  Error in model phases: NA/NaN gradient evaluation
Calls: tryCatch -> tryCatchList -> tryCatchOne -> <Anonymous>
In addition: Warning message:
In nlminb(model$par, model$fn, model$gr) : NA/NaN function evaluation
Execution halted[0m
[91mR script failed with return code 1[0m
Fixing broken model iteration: 4
Let me fix the numerical instabilities in
the model. The key issues are in the     
quota calculations and growth equations. 
I'll make the changes in smaller, focused
blocks:                                  

POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LX
V1UI50\model.cpp                         

                                         
 <<<<<<< SEARCH                          
       // Track internal nutrient quota  
 with bounds                             
       Type Q = N/(P + eps);  // Current 
 quota                                   
       Q = Q < (Q_min + eps) ? (Q_min +  
 eps) : (Q > (Q_max - eps) ? (Q_max - ep 
 : Q);                                   
                                         
       // Nutrient uptake with quota     
 feedback                                
       Type quota_factor = (Q_max -      
 Q)/(Q_max - Q_min);  // Relative quota  
 status                                  
       quota_factor = quota_factor < 0 ? 
 : (quota_factor > 1 ? 1 : quota_factor) 
       Type uptake = r_max * temp_scale  
 quota_factor * N * P / (K_N + N);       
                                         
       // Growth using standard Droop    
 equation                                
       Type mu = r_max * temp_scale *    
 photo_eff * light_limitation * (Type(1. 
 - Q_min/Q);                             
       Type growth = mu * P;             
 =======                                 
       // Calculate nutrient quota with  
 safeguards                              
       Type P_bounded = P + eps;         
       Type Q = N/P_bounded;             
       Q = Q < Q_min ? Q_min : Q;        
       Q = Q > Q_max ? Q_max : Q;        
                                         
       // Nutrient uptake with regulated 
 feedback                                
       Type quota_status = (Q_max -      
 Q)/(Q_max - Q_min + eps);               
       Type uptake_regulation =          
 quota_status > Type(0.0) ? quota_status 
 Type(0.0);                              
       Type uptake = r_max * temp_scale  
 uptake_regulation * N * P / (K_N + N +  
 eps);                                   
                                         
       // Growth rate using modified Dro 
 equation                                
       Type quota_limitation = Type(1.0) 
 Q_min/(Q + eps);                        
       Type growth_rate = r_max *        
 temp_scale * photo_eff * light_limitati 
 *                                       
                         (quota_limitati 
 > Type(0.0) ? quota_limitation :        
 Type(0.0));                             
       Type growth = growth_rate * P;    
 >>>>>>> REPLACE                         
                                         

                                         
 <<<<<<< SEARCH                          
       // Nutrient stress effects based  
 quota status                            
       Type quota_stress = (Q_max -      
 Q)/(Q_max - Q_min);                     
       quota_stress = quota_stress < 0 ? 
 : (quota_stress > 1 ? 1 : quota_stress) 
       Type nutrient_stress = m_P_N *    
 quota_stress;                           
       Type sinking = (s_P + s_P_max *   
 quota_stress) * P;                      
 =======                                 
       // Calculate nutrient stress with 
 bounded quota effects                   
       Type relative_quota = (Q -        
 Q_min)/(Q_max - Q_min + eps);           
       Type stress_factor = Type(1.0) -  
 relative_quota;                         
       stress_factor = stress_factor >   
 Type(0.0) ? stress_factor : Type(0.0);  
       stress_factor = stress_factor <   
 Type(1.0) ? stress_factor : Type(1.0);  
       Type nutrient_stress = m_P_N *    
 stress_factor;                          
       Type sinking = (s_P + s_P_max *   
 stress_factor) * P;                     
 >>>>>>> REPLACE                         
                                         

These changes:                           

 1 Add more robust bounds checking       
 2 Prevent division by zero with         
   strategic eps placement               
 3 Simplify the quota calculations       
 4 Use clearer variable names            
 5 Add intermediate variables for better 
   numerical stability                   
 6 Ensure all terms remain positive when 
   they should be                        

Tokens: 25k sent, 759 received. Cost: 
$0.09 message, $0.52 session.
Committing 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LX
V1UI50\model.cpp before applying edits.
Unable to add C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\model.cpp: Cmd('git') failed 
due to: exit code(1)
  cmdline: git add 
C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\model.cpp
  stderr: 'The following paths are 
ignored by one of your .gitignore files:
POPULATIONS
hint: Use -f if you really want to add 
them.
hint: Turn this message off by running
hint: "git config advice.addIgnoredFile 
false"'
Unable to commit: Cmd('git') failed due 
to: exit code(1)
  cmdline: git commit -m feat: Add model 
implementation for POPULATION_0027 
individual INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50 
--no-verify -- C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive -
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\model.cpp
  stderr: 'error: pathspec 
'C:\Users\spi085\OneDrive - 
CSIRO\Documents\_Projects\SCCP-QuantModel
ling\POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDU
AL_LXV1UI50\model.cpp' did not match any 
file(s) known to git'
Applied edit to 
POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LX
V1UI50\model.cpp
Validating fixed model for data leakage...
Opening file: POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50\model.cpp
File read successfully
Extracting vectors...
Found data vectors: {'Z_dat', 'Time', 'N_dat', 'P_dat'}
Found prediction vectors: {'P_pred', 'Z_pred', 'N_pred', 'Temp', 'D_pred'}
Found reported vectors: {'Z_pred', 'P_pred', 'N_pred', 'D_pred'}
Finding initial conditions...
Found 4 initial conditions
Finding time-stepping loop...
Found loop from line 77 to 174
Found response variables: {'Z_dat', 'N_dat', 'P_dat'}
[93mRunning model for individual...[0m
[0mIndividual directory: POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50[0m
[93mRemoved old compilation: model.dll[0m
[93mRemoved old compilation: model.o[0m
[93mR script stdout:[0m
[0mg++ -std=gnu++17  -I"C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/include" -DNDEBUG -I"C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-44~1.1/library/TMB/include" -I"C:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-44~1.1/library/RCPPEI~1/include"   -DTMB_EIGEN_DISABLE_WARNINGS   -DTMB_LIB_INIT=R_init_model  -DCPPAD_FRAMEWORK    -I"C:/rtools44/x86_64-w64-mingw32.static.posix/include"     -O2 -Wa,-mbig-obj -c POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.cpp -o POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.o
g++ -std=gnu++17 -shared -s -static-libgcc -o POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.dll tmp.def POPULATIONS//POPULATION_0027//INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50/model.o -LC:/rtools44/x86_64-w64-mingw32.static.posix/lib/x64 -LC:/rtools44/x86_64-w64-mingw32.static.posix/lib -LC:/Users/spi085/AppData/Local/Programs/R/R-4.4.1/bin/x64 -lR
Starting model phases
Number of phases: 4 
Phase 1 
Initial parameter values for phase 1 :
r_max g_max 
  1.0   0.4 
Error in model phases: NA/NaN gradient evaluation[0m
[93mR script stderr:[0m
[0mLoading required package: TMB
Loading required package: jsonlite
here() starts at C:/Users/spi085/OneDrive - CSIRO/Documents/_Projects/SCCP-QuantModelling
using C++ compiler: 'G__~1.EXE (GCC) 13.2.0'
Error in value[[3L]](cond) : 
  Error in model phases: NA/NaN gradient evaluation
Calls: tryCatch -> tryCatchList -> tryCatchOne -> <Anonymous>
In addition: Warning message:
In nlminb(model$par, model$fn, model$gr) : NA/NaN function evaluation
Execution halted[0m
[91mR script failed with return code 1[0m
Maximum sub-iterations reached for POPULATIONS\POPULATION_0027\INDIVIDUAL_LXV1UI50. The model could not be successfully run after 5 attempts.
